PARK & NGUYEN
Attorneys at Law
1809 Paulding Avenue, 2nd Fl
Bronx, New York 10462
Tel (718) 892-9500
Fax (718) 892-4666
Email: nyc@parknguyenlaw.com
John S. Park
New Jersey Office:
Peter T. Nguyen~
Nine Commerce Street
Newark, NJ 07102
T: (973) 622-1113
Andrew J. Levitt~
*
Darin S. Billig
Of Counsel
*
Admitted in NY & NJ
~Admitted in NY
NOTICE OF RESCHEDULED HEARING
VIA ZOOM
November 30, 2021
PHILIP M. HINES, ESQ.
HELD & HINES, LLP
370 LEXINGTON AVENUE, SUITE 800
NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10017
Re:
CLAIMANT: DAVID BOOKMAN
CLAIM NO.: 2021PI024160
Dear Sir/Madam:
This is to confirm that the hearing for the above referenced claim has been rescheduled for the following
location and time:
LAW OFFICES OF:
ZOOM HEARING
PARK & NGUYEN
HEARING DATE:
JANUARY 10, 2022
HEARING TIME:
02:00 PM
Considering the rapidly evolving public-health crisis presented by the coronavirus, please note the
following, which are based on the recommendations of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention:
Inquire whether your client is experiencing any flu-like symptoms, such as fever, cough, or shortness of
breath
Ask to postpone or reschedule a 50-h hearing if your client has traveled to a high-risk area, is
experiencing flu-like symptoms, or is sick
Agree to reschedule a 50-h hearing if a claimant exhibits any of the above symptoms during a 50h
hearing
While in our facilities, claimant and counsel should wash hands with soap and water for at least 20
seconds, especially after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after blowing your nose, coughing, or
sneezing. If soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60%
alcohol.
Thank you for your understanding and cooperation in the effort to keep all New Yorkers safe from the
spread of the coronavirus.
The claimant should be accompanied by his/her attorney. Claimant is further mandated, pursuant to
Section 93(d) of the New York City Charter and Section 50-h of the GML, to present him/herself for a physical
examination at a date and location to be provided under separate cover.
Please note that all infant claimants must appear. The hearing will begin promptly at the time indicated
and there will be no office space to meet with and prepare your client.
Upon receipt of this notice, please contact us if a language interpreter for your client is necessary. One
day prior to the hearing, we will call your office to confirm the date and time of the hearing. If you confirm the
hearing date at that time and you subsequently fail to appear for the hearing, you will be charged by the City for
any legal fee, interpreter fee and stenographic fee incurred.
All applications for adjournments should be directed via email to nyc@parknguyenlaw.com
Claimants will be permitted one adjournment without cause. Application for such adjournments should
be made at least one week prior to the hearing date. Applications for additional adjournments must include the
reason for the request and will be granted for good cause only.
If a claimant fails to appear for a scheduled hearing, a default will be declared and claimant's failure to
appear will be raised as an affirmative defense in any lawsuit subsequently filed.
If the claim involves the New York Police Department we request that you bring a CPL 160.50
authorization releasing the claimant's criminal records to the Comptroller's office. If such release is not
provided, we will request that the claimant execute a CPL 160.50 release at the hearing.
To prevent fraud, the claimant is required to present proper identification prior to commencement
of the hearing. Additionally, you are requested to bring to the hearing original photographs of the accident
scene and copies of all documents relevant to this claim including but not limited to:
(1) prior written notice map;
(2) all medical and hospital records;
(3) authorizations for the Comptroller's Office to obtain, as applicable, medical, criminal,
employment and/or school records, loss of income documentation; and
(4) police reports.
Pursuant to State and Federal law, the Comptroller's Office, through its attorneys taking hearings, is
authorized to obtain, social security and Medicare or Medicaid numbers for tax and reporting purposes, and to
allow for the collection of liens held by the City and State.
Please be advised that nothing contained herein shall be construed as extending the statute of limitations
beyond the statutory time.
Please note that the office does not provide day care services. Therefore, infants and small children will
not be permitted in the office.
All questions regarding this notice should be addressed to either Bernice or Darin Billig at Park &
Nguyen.
Please be aware that filing a false claim or aiding and abetting the filing of a false claim is a crime.
Violators will be fully prosecuted to the extent of the law.
Sincerely,
/s/ Darin Billig
Darin Billig
cc:
Comptroller's Office