FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 302379/2022E
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
-1625
The City of New York
HON. SYLVIA O. HINDS-RADIX
LAW DEPARTMENT
Corporation Counsel
100 CHURCH STREET
NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10007
Dear Counsel:
If you would like to have this case considered for possible early settlement by the
Early Intervention Unit of the Tort Division, the following items (as applicable) should be
forwarded to the attention of Millicent Nicholas-Richards via email to mnichola@law.nyc.gov.
IN ALL CASES COPIES OF THE FOLLOWING ITEMS MUST BE PROVIDED:
1. Notice of Claim and Filed Summons & Complaint.
2. Aided Card, if prepared.
3. UF18 - City Involved Accident Report, if prepared.
4. All medical and hospital records, including ambulance call report, first treatment, full
emergency room record, operative and radiology reports, treating physician(s) reports,
physical therapy records, etc.
5. Photographs (duplicates, color or laser copies preferred) of the location and of injuries, if
scarring is claimed.
6. Proof of any special damages claimed.
7. Any other item(s) that you believe pertinent to an early resolution of your case.
8. Social Security number and any other Medicare information - see attached notice
ALLEGED TRIP AND FALL ON A SIDEWALK OR ROADWAY
1. Most recently dated Big Apple map.
2. Any other documents that the plaintiff will rely upon to prove prior written notice.
MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT CASES
1. Police Accident Report.
2. Agency incident/accident report, if prepared.
3. Repair bills and/or estimates.
4.
If the accident involves traffic light or stop sign, any documentation that the plaintiff will
rely upon to prove notice.
ALLEGED PREMISES LIABILITY
1. Copies of any documents that plaintiff will rely on to establish ownership of the premises.
2. Prior complaints.
3. Accident/incident reports.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION CASES
1. Accident and/or incident report and attachments, if any.
1 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2022E
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
2. Custodian reports.
3. Teacher(s) statements/reports.
4. Witness statements.
ALLEGED POLICE MISCONDUCT
1. Any police reports in your possession.
2. Arrest Report, Complaint report, follow-up reports and photographs.
3. Certified copy of the disposition of any criminal proceedings.
4. If entitlement to reimbursement of legal fees is claimed, copies of any bills incurred.
ALLEGED PROPERTY DAMAGE
1. Photographs (duplicates, color or laser copies preferred) depicting the items alleged to have
been damaged, prior and subsequent to the damage.
2. Original purchase receipts, cancelled checks, and/or charge slips for the items alleged to
have been damaged.
3. Appraisals, warranties, etc.
4. Copies of any insurance agreements pertaining to property damages and/or loss.
Please be advised that all of the above materials must be sent in order to have your case considered
for possible early settlement - incomplete cases cannot be considered. Within 30 days after receipt
of the above materials via email, you will be contacted to discuss the case further. Counsel
appearing at the conference must have settlement authority and be prepared to establish liability
and damages. If you have any questions, you may contact Nancy A. Goldbach directly by email to
ngoldbac@law.nyc.gov
Very truly yours,
Nancy A. Goldbach
2 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2022
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
-1625
The City of New York
LAW DEPARTMENT
Office of the Corporation Counsel
medicare@law.nyc.gov
Tort Division
HON. SYLVIA O. HINDS-RADIX
Medicare Compliance and Recovery Unit
Corporation Counsel
100 Church Street, 4th Floor
New York, NY 10007-2668
April 11, 2022
HELD & HINES, LLP
2004 Ralph Avenue
Brooklyn, NY 11234
Re:
DAVID BOOKMAN V. CITY OF NEW YORK
R.N.D.C. DEPUTY WARDEN JOHN DOE, and
CORRECTION OFFICERS JOHN DOE 1-5,
fictitious names used to identify presently
unknown deputy warden and correction officers
herein
Law Dept. File No: 2021-023707
Dear Counselor:
We write to request that you provide us with certain personal identifying information
about each plaintiff you represent in this lawsuit in order for us to determine whether they are a
Medicare recipient(s). Specifically, we need each plaintiff's date of birth, gender, and Social
Security number or Health Insurance Claim Number (HICN), also known as the Medicare
number. This information will be used by the Law Department to obtain plaintiff's Medicare
status via a database established by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services ("CMS") for
this purpose. 1
Information about a plaintiff's Medicare status is required by the City in order to comply
with federal Medicare laws. Self-insured liability entities (such as the City of New York) are
considered "primary plans" under the Medicare laws and are, therefore, required to report to
1
CMS has developed a "query process" under which a responsible reporting entity (RRE) (such as the City in this
case) can determine a claimant's Medicare status electronically, as long as the RRE has access to the claimant's
name, date of birth, gender and social security number. Seger V. Tank Connection, LLC, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS
49013 at *13 (D. Neb. Apr. 22, 2010).
3 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2022E
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
CMS all monetary recoveries obtained by Medicare-eligible plaintiffs in personal injury lawsuits.
See Medicare Secondary Payer Act (MSPA) 42 U.S.C. 1395y(b)(8)(A)(i); Seger V. Tank
Connection, LLC, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 49013 (D. Neb. Apr. 22, 2010) ) ("the Extension Act
adds new mandatory reporting obligations to the Medicare Secondary Payer Act ("MSPA")
requiring
self-insurers to provide detailed information regarding all liability settlements or
open claims with ongoing responsibility for medical treatment with Medicare beneficiaries to the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS")"). Torres V Visto Realty Corp., 2015 N.Y.
App. Div. LEXIS 3216, 1-2 (1st Dep't 2015) ("plaintiff did not satisfy his obligations under
CPLR 5003-a, since he failed to provide defendant with the information relating to his Medicare
status that defendant requires to comply with its reporting obligations under 42 USC § 1395y")
(citations omitted); Bey V. City of New York, 2013 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 15597, at *5-6 (E.D.N.Y.
Feb. 5, 2013) (same.). Thus, the City needs to ascertain plaintiff's Medicare status for the
purposes of satisfying its reporting obligations.
Additionally, the City also requires the personal identifying information to resolve any
outstanding Medicare claims before issuing payment on settlements. See MSPA, 42 U.S.C.
1395y(b)(2)(B)(ii) ("a primary plan's responsibility for such payment may be demonstrated by a
judgment [or settlement
for items or services included in a claim against the primary plan
."); see also Torres V. Hirsch Park, LLC, 91 AD.3d 942 (2nd Dep't 2012) ("the authorizations
that the Supreme Court directed the plaintiff to provide are necessary for the defendant to
comply with its statutory duty to report the identity of a claimant who is entitled to Medicare
benefits (see 42 USC 1395y[b][8]) and to determine the existence of potential subrogation claims
[under federal law]") (citations omitted); Liss V. Brigham Park Coop Apts., 264 A.D.2d 717 (2d
Dep't 1999) (because the Federal government has a right of action directly against the defendant
for recovery of its lien, it was "incumbent upon plaintiff to resolve the lien and give the
defendant a release.")
Indeed, the responsibility of assuring reimbursement of Medicare claims extends to all
entities involved in the underlying liability action, including the plaintiff's counsel. CFR §
411.24(g); United States V. Harris, 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 23956 (N.D. W. Va. Mar. 26, 2009)
(holding that plaintiff's attorney is liable to Medicare for unpaid liens because he disbursed
settlement funds in a liability case to his client without first reimbursing Medicare for its claims).
Thus, it is to all parties' benefit to ascertain a plaintiff's Medicare status as early as possible SO as
to resolve any existing Medicare claims and facilitate payment of settlements.
In view of the foregoing, we ask that you promptly submit to us the requested
information. If you know for a fact that your client presently receives Medicare, you should
immediately (1) notify Medicare of the pending lawsuit;2 (2) provide the Law Department with
2
If you have never notified Medicare about this injury claim before, the first step is to report the injury to the
Benefits Coordination & Recovery Contractor (BCRC) at P.O. Box 138897, Oklahoma City, OK 73113-8897, or by
telephone at 1-855-798-2627. A case identifier will be established, and you will then receive a correspondence
from the BCRC concerning any conditional payments made by Medicare on your client's behalf for the injuries
underlying this case. BCRC is the agency that will issue final demand letters on amounts due Medicare. More
detailed information concerning the foregoing procedures can be found at http://go.cms.gov/cobro by clicking on
the links to the left of the screen entitled 'Non-Group Health Plan Recovery' and 'Reimbursing Medicare'. There is
also a portal on this website, the Medicare Secondary Payer Recovery Portal (MSPRP) that allows registered users
to access and update certain case-specific information online, including an electronic conditional payment letter.
Please visit the website for information as how to register for this service.
4 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2022E
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
plaintiff's Medicare identification number and/or social security number; (3) obtain conditional
and final payment information from Medicare and (4) provide copies of any correspondences to
the City. If future medical care for plaintiff is anticipated, you may also need to consider a
Medicare set-aside instrument for payment of future medical costs;
3
If plaintiff was insured under a Medicare Advantage Plan ("MAP") under Part C of the
Medicare Act at any time after the incident at issue here, plaintiff should notify the City about
the MAP coverage, and also inform the MAP(s) of this lawsuit. Recent New York decisions
have held that a MAP provider can pursue recovery of its reimbursement and/or subrogation
claims in the same manner as traditional Medicare. See Potts V. Rawlings Co., LLC, 897 F.
Supp. 2d 185 (S.D.N.Y. 2012); Trezza V Trezza, 104 A.D.3d 37, 48 (2d Dep't 2012)
("Based on the express preemption provision set forth in 42 USC § 1395w-26(b)(3), as well as
the regulations set forth in 42 CFR 422.108(f), we hold that General Obligations Law § 5-335,
insofar as applied to Medicare Advantage organizations under Part C, is preempted by federal
law since it would impermissibly constrain contractual reimbursement rights authorized under
the "Organization as secondary payer" provisions of the Medicare Act."). Moreover, several
federal courts have ruled that a MAP provider can also bring a federal action to collect on its
liens under 42 U.S.C. § 1395y(b)(3)(A) - and can seek double damages thereunder. See In re
Avandia Mktg., 685 F.3d 353, 360 (3d Cir. Pa. 2012); Collins V. Wellcare Healthcare Plans, Inc.,
2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 174420 (E.D. La. Dec. 16, 2014). The City, therefore, will require
resolution of any Medicare-related claims as a condition to any settlement in this matter,
regardless whether the claims are asserted by the government under a traditional Medicare plan
or by a MAP under a Medicare Part C.
Thank you for your attention to the foregoing. Should you have any questions, feel free
to contact the City's Medicare Compliance Unit at medicare@law.nyc.gov.
PLEASE BE ADVISED THAT WE CANNOT FINALIZE ANY SETTLEMENT
WITH A CURRENT MEDICARE RECIPIENT WITHOUT FIRST RESOLVING
MEDICARE'S CLAIM.
Very truly yours,
Medicare Compliance Officer
Encl.
3 You should be aware that if CMS determines that Medicare's future interests were not adequately protected, CMS
may require that plaintiff expend up to the entire amount of the settlement on Medicare-covered expenses related to
the injury claimed in this lawsuit before Medicare will provide coverage for the further treatment of such injury. See
Cribb V. Sulzer Metco (US) Inc., 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 134900 (E.D.N.C. Sept. 5, 2012); Sipler V. Trans Am
Trucking, Inc., 881 F. Supp. 2d 635, 638 (D.N.J. 2012). Accordingly, we suggest that plaintiff evaluate her future
medical needs with her physicians and consider creating a Medicare set-aside instrument at the appropriate time.
5 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2022E
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF BRONX
X
DAVID BOOKMAN,
ANSWER
Plaintiff(s),
-against-
Index #: 802379/2022E
CITY OF NEW YORK, R.N.D.C. DEPUTY WARDEN
Law Dept. #: 2021-023707
JOHN DOE, AND CORRECTION OFFICERS JOHN
DOE 1-5, FICTITIOUS NAMES USED TO IDENTIFY
PRESENTLY UNKNOWN DEPUTY WARDEN AND
CORRECTION OFFICERS HEREIN,
Defendant(s).
x
Defendant THE CITY OF NEW YORK, by HON. SYLVIA O. HINDS-RADIX,
Corporation Counsel, answering the complaint, allege upon information and belief:
1.
Deny each allegation set forth in paragraph(s) 4, 9-11, 13, 14, 16-18, 22-
26, 31, 33-40, 43-51, 53-83, 85-87, 89-92, 94-98, inclusive.
2.
Deny knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief with respect to
the truth of the allegations set forth in paragraph(s) 1, 12, 15, 19, 20, 21, inclusive.
3.
Deny the allegations set forth in paragraph(s) 27-30, inclusive, except that
a notice of a claim was presented, that more than thirty days have elapsed without adjustment
thereof.
4.
Deny each allegation set forth in paragraph(s) 3, 6, inclusive, except that
THE CITY OF NEW YORK owned the identified in the complaint
5.
Deny each allegation set forth in paragraph(s) 2, inclusive, except that the
City of New York is a municipal corporation.
6 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2021
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
6.
Deny each allegation set forth in paragraph(s) 32, 41, 52, 84, 88, 93,
inclusive, except as otherwise pleaded herein.
7.
Deny each allegation set forth in paragraph(s) designated 5, 7, 8, 42,
inclusive, as the same are conclusory and evidentiary and present questions of law and fact
which should be reserved for decision at the time of trial.
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE(S)
8.
Plaintiff(s)' culpable conduct caused or contributed, in whole or in part, to
his/her/their injuries and or damages.
9.
At all times mentioned in the complaint, plaintiff(s) knew or should have
known in the exercise of due/reasonable care of the risks and dangers incident to engaging in the
activity alleged. Plaintiff(s) voluntarily performed and engaged in the alleged activity and
assumed the risk of the injuries and/or damages claimed. Plaintiff(s) failed to use all required,
proper, appropriate and reasonable safety devices and/or equipment and failed to take all proper,
appropriate and reasonable steps to assure his/her/their safety. Plaintiff(s)' primary assumption
of risk solely caused his/her/their injuries and/or damage and defendant(s) owed no duty to the
plaintiff(s) with respect to the risk assumed. Plaintiff(s)' express assumption of risk solely
caused his/her/their injuries and/or damage and defendant(s) owed no duty to the plaintiff(s) with
respect to the risk assumed. Plaintiff(s)' implied assumption of risk caused or contributed, in
whole or in part to his/her/their injuries. In any action for injuries arising from the use of a
vehicle in, or upon which plaintiff(s) were riding; it will be claimed that the injuries and/or
damages sustained were caused by the failure of the plaintiff(s) to use available seat-belts and/or
other safety devices.
10.
Defendants are immune from suit for their exercise of discretion in the
performance of a governmental function and/or their exercise of professional judgment.
7 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 302379/2022E
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF 04/11/2022
11.
The amounts recoverable by plaintiff(s) are subject to limitation pursuant
to Section 1601 of the Civil Practice Law and Rules, by reason of the culpable conduct of other
person(s) who are, or with reasonable diligence could have been made party defendant(s) to this
action, or pursuant to Section 15-108 of the General Obligations Law, by reason of a prior
settlement between plaintiff(s) and said person(s), or pursuant to Section 4545 of the Civil
Practice Law and Rules are subject to reduction by collateral sources received by plaintiff(s), or
by reason of the fact that punitive damages are not recoverable against municipal defendant(s).
12.
If plaintiff demonstrates that the acts complained of were undertaken in
the scope of the actor(s) employment, then such acts as may have been committed by law
enforcement officers in the employ of the City of New York were justified as being reasonably
necessary, and were committed in good faith without malice and with probable cause, and in the
exercise of professional judgment or the performance of discretionary functions for which
defendant(s) are qualifiedly privileged under the laws of this State and of the United States.
Individual defendant(s) represented by the Office of the Corporation Counsel (if any) did not
violate any clearly established constitutional or statutory right of which a reasonable person
would have known and therefore are/is protected by qualified immunity.
8 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2022E
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
WHEREFORE, defendant(s) demand judgment dismissing the complaint and all
cross-claims against them, or, in the event that they are adjudged liable, granting judgment over,
or apportioning such liability in accordance with their equitable shares of responsibility, and
awarding the costs of this action, together with such other and further relief as to the court may
seem just.
HON. SYLVIA O. HINDS-RADIX
Corporation Counsel
100 Church Street
New York, New York 10007
9 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2022E
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
Index #: 802379/2022E
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF BRONX
DAVID BOOKMAN,
Plaintiff(s),
- against -
CITY OF NEW YORK, R.N.D.C. DEPUTY WARDEN JOHN DOE, AND
CORRECTION OFFICERS JOHN DOE 1-5, FICTITIOUS NAMES USED TO
IDENTIFY PRESENTLY UNKNOWN DEPUTY WARDEN AND
CORRECTION OFFICERS HEREIN,
Defendant(s).
COMBINED DEMAND FOR
BILL OF PARTICULARS & DISCOVERY
HON. SYLVIA O. HINDS-RADIX
Corporation Counsel
Attorney for Defendant THE CITY OF NEW YORK, 100 Church Street
New York, New York 10007
Telephone Numbers:
Early Intervention Unit (settlements - all Boroughs)
(212) 356-1665
Pleadings Unit (212) 356-3235 (pleadings matters only)
All Other Matters (Inquire by county of venue)
Bronx Office: (718) 503-5030 (EBT's - 5045)
Brooklyn Office: (718) 724-5200 (EBT's-5226)
Manhattan Office: (212) 356-2725 (EBT's-2791)
Queens Office: (718) 558-2100 (EBT's - 2105)
Staten Island Office: (718) 876-3600 (EBT's-3603)
Please refer to the following Law Dept. #: 2021-023707
and indicate the County in which the action is pending in all papers,
correspondence and other communications with respect thereto.
10 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2022E
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF BRONX
DAVID BOOKMAN,
COMBINED DEMAND FOR
Plaintiff(s),
VERIFIED BILL OF
PARTICULARS & DISCOVERY
-against-
CITY OF NEW YORK, R.N.D.C. DEPUTY WARDEN JOHN
DOE, AND CORRECTION OFFICERS JOHN DOE 1-5,
FICTITIOUS NAMES USED TO IDENTIFY PRESENTLY
UNKNOWN DEPUTY WARDEN AND CORRECTION
OFFICERS HEREIN,
Defendant(s).
X
DEMAND FOR VERIFIED BILL OF PARTICULARS
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that pursuant to CPLR 3041, plaintiff(s) is required within 30
days following service of this demand to serve upon HON. SYLVIA O. HINDS-RADIX, Corporation
Counsel, a verified bill of particulars setting forth in reasonable detail a statement of the following:
1. The exact date and time of the act or occurrence.
2. The specific location of the act or occurrence with reference to addresses, landmarks, or
other identifying points of reference, including the direction and distance therefrom. If the occurrence took
place inside a premise, state specifically the location within the premise and also include the block and lot of
the premises.
3. State the injuries claimed, if any.
4. State those injuries claimed to be permanent.
5. If applicable, set forth the length of time it is alleged the plaintiff(s) was confined to:
(a) Hospital(s);
(b) Bed;
(c) House.
6. If applicable, set forth the amount claimed as special damages for:
(a) Physician(s) services;
(b) Nurses services;
(c) Hospital expenses;
(d) Drugs and medical supplies;
(e) X-rays and diagnostic tests.
For each of the foregoing elements of damages please state the name and address(es) of the
provider(s) and the dates of treatment. If any of the foregoing elements of damages have been repaid to the
plaintiff(s) or otherwise paid for by other sources, identify each type of service recompensed, the source or
sources of such recompense, the amount SO paid and the net amount of out of pocket expenses sustained by
the plaintiff(s).
7. If applicable, state the total amount of all other special damages not specified in items
above; and please state the
(a) name and address of each service provider;
(b) each date of the service;
(c) amount of the expense for each provider;
(d) amount of any expense paid by a third-party (including any payment made to
reimburse plaintiff);
(e) name and address of the third-party paying any expense; and
11 of 32
FILED BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2022
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
(f) amount of any unreimbursed expense paid by plaintiff(s) personally to each
provider.
8. State the occupation of plaintiff(s) at the time of the incident; and please state the:
(a)
name and address of any employer for 5 years prior to alleged incident and up to
the time of trial;
(b) length of time totally disabled from work;
(c) length of time partially disabled from work;
(d)
amount claimed for lost earnings, if any;
i. if a loss of earnings claim is alleged, please state the yearly gross earnings for
each year during 5 years prior to alleged incident and up to the time of trial;
and
(e)
number of days absent from work as a result of injuries sustained from the
incident.
9. State the (a) name and address of any school attended by plaintiff(s) for 5 years prior to
alleged incident and up to the time of trial; and (b) the number of days lost from school as a result of injuries
sustained from incident.
10. State the home address of plaintiff(s) for a period of 5 years prior to the alleged incident
to the present.
11. State any other name used by plaintiff(s) and the time period when the name was used.
12. State the date of birth and social security number of plaintiff(s) (this request is made
pursuant to Section 111 of the Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007, 42 U.S.C. 1395
(B)(8)).
13. State whether plaintiff(s) is (are) or ever was (were) a Medicare recipient(s). If plaintiff
is (are) or ever was (were) a Medicare recipient, provide their Medicare Beneficiary Identifier (MBI)
number and respond to the following:
a.
State whether plaintiff(s) is (are) or ever was (were) enrolled in any Medicare
Advantage Plan (MAP) also known as Medicare Part C. If Plaintiff is or was
enrolled in a MAP, please provide the policy/plan number and effective date(s)
of coverage along with copies of any insurance cards since the date of
accident/incident and all Explanation of Benefits (EOB) statements related to the
subject accident/incident;
b.
State whether plaintiff (s) is (are) or was (were) enrolled in a Prescription Drug
Plan (PDP) also known as Medicare Part D. If Plaintiff is or was enrolled in
a
PDP, please provide the policy/plan number and effective date(s) of coverage
along with copies of any insurance cards since the date of accident/incident and
all Explanation of Benefits (EOB) statements related to the subject
accident/incident;
14. State whether plaintiff(s) is (are) or ever was (were) a Medicaid recipient(s). If plaintiff
is or was a Medicaid recipient please provide the following:
a. Plaintiff's Client Identification Number (CIN);
b. A copy of any and all Medicaid Identification cards;
c. A copy of the Notice that was provided to HRA pursuant to CPLR§306-c and
filed with the Court.
15. Please state whether plaintiff(s) is (are) or ever was (were) receiving Social Disability
Income (SSDI) and to/from dates that benefits were received and amount of said benefits.
16. If plaintiff(s) has (have) ever been convicted of a crime (including any guilty plea),
please state (a) the NYSID number of plaintiff; (b) the dates of every conviction; (c) whether the conviction
was state or federal; and (d) the county where each conviction occurred.
17. If the complaint alleges loss of services, set forth the pecuniary loss, if any, alleged in
the complaint. Enumerate the damages for:
(a) Loss of services;
(b) Consortium;
(c) Other expenses.
18. State those injuries arising from the use or operation of a motor vehicle which are
claimed to be serious, as defined in Insurance Law § 5102 (d), if any.
19. If property damage is claimed, please state (a) all property damaged; (b) the fair market
value of each item at the time it was damaged; (c) the cost of repairing each item; (d) the cost of replacing
12 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/202
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
each item; (e) the date each item was acquired; (f) the purchase cost of each item; (g) the amount(s) provided
by a third-party to reimburse damage; (h) the name and address of any third-party which reimbursed damage;
and (i) amount of any unreimbursed payment made by plaintiff(s) to replace or repair a damaged item.
20. State the manner in which it is claimed the accident occurred.
21. State separately the acts or omissions constituting the alleged negligence of each of the
answering defendant(s), if any.
22. State separately the acts of each of the answering defendant(s) constituting the
intentional wrongs claimed, if any.
23. State the names of the employee(s) or agents of the answering defendant(s) who are
alleged to have committed the acts set forth in the items above.
24. Describe any alleged dangerous and defective condition and or the object or
instrumentality complained of, as well as the nature of the condition alleged.
25. State whether any repairs were made prior to the happening of the alleged accident.
26. If it is alleged that repairs were made prior to the happening of the accident, state when,
where, and by whom, the repairs were made.
27. State whether actual or constructive notice is claimed or whether it is alleged that
defendant created the condition complained of.
28. If actual notice is claimed, then set forth the following:
(a) The names of the employees, agents and/or servants of the defendant(s) to
whom it will be alleged said actual notice was given;
(b) By whom will it be claimed that said actual notice was given on each
occasion aforesaid;
(c) The date or dates of each said notice;
(d) The place said actual notice was given.
29. If constructive notice is claimed, state the length of time said condition is alleged to have
existed prior to the happening of the alleged occurrence.
30. If prior written notice is claimed, specify the nature of such notice.
31. If prior written notice is claimed, then set forth the following:
(a) The name(s) of the entity, agency, employees, agents and/or servants of the
defendant(s) to whom it will be alleged said prior written notice was given;
(b) By whom will it be claimed that said prior written notice was given on each
occasion aforesaid;
(c) The date or dates of each said notice;
(d) The place said notice was given.
32. In any action where plaintiff(s) claim the violation of any statute, ordinance, rule, order,
requirement or regulation, state separately and specifically all such statutes, ordinances, rules or regulations
alleged to have been violated by the answering defendant(s).
33. If applicable, describe in what respects defendant(s) failed to provide plaintiff(s) with a
safe place to work.
34. If applicable, state whether plaintiff(s) will allege that this defendant(s) was a party to a
contract. If yes;
(a) State the parties to the contract;
(b) State the contract number.
35. If applicable, set forth each and every item of construction, excavation or demolition
work which the plaintiff(s) will allege was not SO constructed, shored, equipped, guarded, arranged, operated
and conducted as to provide reasonable and adequate safety; setting forth the manner in which the
construction, shoring, equipping, guarding, arranging, operating and/or conducting of the construction,
excavating, or demolition work is alleged to have caused the plaintiff(s) alleged injury.
36. If applicable, state whether the plaintiff(s) will allege that this defendant(s) exercised
control over the work being performed at the job site. If yes, state the nature and extent of the control
allegedly exercised and the exact manner in which said control was exercised.
37. If applicable, state those injuries claimed to be "grave", as defined in the Workers'
Compensation Law § 11.
13 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2022E
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
ALLEGED DEFAMATION
Where applicable, in addition to the foregoing, if plaintiff(s) alleges defamation, the
following items are additionally demanded:
38. Whether the alleged defamatory statement was communicated orally or in a writing.
39. With respect to each of the answering defendant(s), the particular words complained of
and allegedly communicated.
40. The name(s) and address(es) of any person(s) it is alleged heard or received the
defamatory statement(s).
41. If it is alleged that the defamatory statement(s) were communicated in a writing, set
forth the date(s), nature, and content of the writing.
42. If it is alleged that any defamatory statement was published, set forth the date(s), nature
and name of the media or publication and each republication of the alleged defamatory statement.
43. The circumstances, acts, and/or omissions which evince defendant(s) knowledge of the
falsity, or reckless disregard of the truth, or malice, with respect to the statement(s) allegedly made.
14 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/20
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
ALLEGED POLICE MISCONDUCT
Where applicable, in addition to the foregoing, if plaintiff(s) alleges police misconduct,
the following items are additionally demanded:
44. State the criminal court file and docket number of the criminal proceeding.
45. State the (a) the specific charges; (b) the disposition of each charge; and (c) the date of
said disposition.
46. State the date and time taken into custody.
47. State the date of arraignment.
48. State the date and time released from incarceration.
49. State the name, address, and phone number of attorney(s) who represented plaintiff(s) in
the criminal proceedings.
50. State the amount claimed for legal fees, if any.
51. State the NYSID number of plaintiff(s).
52. For each criminal proceeding, including arraignment, please state the (a) the type of
proceeding; (b) the date(s) of the proceeding; (c) the name of reporter who transcribed the proceeding; and
(d) the name of Judge who presided over the proceeding.
ALLEGED EXPOSURE TO LEAD-BASED PAINT
Where applicable, in addition to the foregoing, if plaintiff(s) allege damages as a result
of exposure to lead-based paint, the following items are additionally demanded:
53. The day, month, and year of initial exposure;
54. The day, month and year when exposure terminated;
55. The address(es), including apartment numbers, of every premises where it is alleged that
plaintiff(s) were exposed to lead-based paint;
56. The highest recorded blood lead level for plaintiff(s) and the date of the diagnosis;
57. The date of the initial diagnosis;
58. Whether it is claimed that plaintiff(s) sustained any cognitive injuries or learning
disabilities as a result of any alleged exposure and if so, state the nature of the disability, when any such
disability was diagnosed, the school and current grade level of plaintiff(s) and whether plaintiff(s) have been
placed in any special classes.
ALLEGED ACTION FOR WRONGFUL DEATH
Where applicable, in addition to the foregoing, if plaintiff(s) allege wrongful death, the
following items are additionally demanded:
59. State the amount claimed as pecuniary loss, specifying the loss of parental guidance by
each person dependent upon support of the decedent.
60. State the names, addresses, ages, and relationships to the decedent of all persons to
whose support it is claimed the decedent contributed.
61. State the nature and purpose of the support contributed as to each person supported,
including how and when support was given.
62. State the date, place and cause of death.
63. State the length of time the decedent remained conscious of the injuries sustained.
64. State the total amounts claimed as special damages for:
(a) Funeral and burial expenses;
(b) Administration expenses;
(c) Any other damages claimed.
ALLEGED NEGLIGENT EMERGENCY MEDICAL RESPONSE
Where applicable, in addition to the foregoing, if plaintiff(s) allege negligent emergency
medical response, the following items are additionally demanded:
65. The exact dates and times of the claimed acts or occurrences.
66. The specific locations of the claimed acts and/or occurrences with reference to
addresses, landmarks, or other identifying points of reference. If the claimed acts and/or occurrences took
15 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2022E
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
place inside a premise, state specifically the location within the premise and/or the department(s), as
applicable, of said premises.
67. The specific time when the need for medical attention was first noticed by the plaintiff in
distress, or by another person.
68. If a call for emergency assistance was made, indicate:
(a) the time at which the call was placed.
(b) the person who placed the call and, if other than the patient, his or her
relationship to the patient.
(c) the description or report of injury or emergency given.
(d) if more than one call was made to 911.
(e) what the caller was told by the operator.
69. If more than one call was made to 911, indicate:
(a) the total number of calls made to 911.
(b) the time of each respective subsequent call,
(c) the person or people who made each respective subsequent call (if different from
the first call).
(d) if the description of the injury or emergency changed after the first call to 911,
indicate what the change was, why the description changed, when the change in condition was first noticed
prior to it being reported to 911, and when the change was reported to 911
(e) what the caller was told by the operator during each respective call.
70. Indicate if 911 had been contacted earlier in the day of the incident for the same
or similar condition. If so, indicate the person or persons who made the call, and when they made
it. Describe what the person or persons were told by the operator.
71. Indicate what time emergency personnel first arrived. Also indicate, if known, the
respective names and ranks of emergency personnel who arrived on the scene. If known, indicate if the
personnel were from the FDNY or the NYPD. If the personnel were not from either of those two agencies,
identify, if known, the agency or hospital the personnel were from.
72. Indicate, if known, what time any additional and/or subsequent emergency
personnel arrived after the initial emergency personnel. Indicate if such additional personnel were
from the FDNY or the NYPD. If the additional personnel were not from those two agencies,
identify the agency or agencies the personnel were from. Indicate the names and ranks of any
additional emergency personnel who arrived. Describe any actions taken, and treatment provided
by additional emergency personnel on-scene, or, if applicable, en route to a hospital.
73. State whether a claim is made that the answering defendant ignored or
misdiagnosed complaints, signs, or symptoms of the patient plaintiff.
(a)
If such a claim is made, state specifically by name or description all
complaints, signs, and symptoms that the answering defendant(s) ignored or
misdiagnosed.
(b)
State what injury is claimed as the result of the answering defendant
ignoring or misdiagnosing the complaints, signs, and symptoms.
(c)
State specifically at what point during treatment the complaints, signs, and
symptoms
were
ignored
or
misdiagnosed.
(d)
State what the misdiagnosis of the complaints, signs, and symptoms was.
74. Describe the treatment, if any, provided by each of the arriving emergency
personnel. Indicate, with specific time(s) and location(s):
(a)
if the patient was intubated.
(i)
If it is claimed that intubation was improper, describe how
and why the intubation was improper, and the affect such
alleged improper intubation had on the patient's condition,
illness, or injury.
16 of 32
FILED BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2022E
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
(ii)
If it is claimed that the patient should have been, but was
not intubated, describe the affect such alleged lack of
intubation had on the patient's condition, illness, or injury.
(iii)
If it is claimed that there was a delay in the patient being
intubated, state the length of the delay, and explain the
affect such alleged delay had on the patient's condition,
illness, or injury.
(b)
if an intravenous line was started.
(i)
If it is claimed that an intravenous line was improper,
describe how and why the intravenous line was improper,
and the affect such alleged improper use had on the
patient's condition, illness, or injury.
(c)
if a defibrillator was required or used.
(i)
If it is claimed that a defibrillator was improperly used,
describe how and why the use was improper, and the affect
such alleged improper use had on the patient's condition,
illness, or injury.
(ii)
If it is claimed that a defibrillator should have been, but was
not used, explain the affect such alleged lack of use had on
the patient's condition, illness, or injury.
(iii)
If it is claimed that there was a delay in using a defibrillator,
state the length of delay, and explain the affect such alleged
delay had on the patient's condition, illness, or injury.
(d)
if oxygen was required or given.
(i)
if it is claimed that oxygen should have been given and was
not, explain why oxygenation was required, as well as the
affect that the alleged lack of oxygenation had on the
patient's condition, illness, or injury.
(ii)
if it is claimed that oxygenation was improper, explain how
it was improper, and the affect that such alleged improper
oxygenation had on the patient's condition, illness, or
injury.
(iii)
if it is claimed that there was a delay in oxygenation of the
patient, state the length of delay, and the affect such alleged
delay had on the patient's condition, illness, or injury.
(e)
if any medication was improperly administered, contraindicated,
administered in an improper dosage or improper manner.
(i)
State the name and description of each drug or
medication improperly administered. Describe the
manner in which the drug or medication was
improperly administered. State the injury claimed
as a result of the improperly administered drug or
medication. State specifically at what point the
drugs were administered improperly.
17 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2022E
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
(ii)
State the name and description of each drug or
medication administered in an improper dosage.
Indicate what the improper dosage was. State the
injury claimed as a result of the improper dosage.
State specifically at what point during treatment the
drugs were administered in an improper dosage.
(iii)
State the name and description of each drug or
medication claimed to be contraindicated. State in
what way it is claimed that each such drug or
medication was contraindicated. State the injuries
claimed as a result of the administering of the
contraindicated drug or medication. State
specifically at what point during treatment the
contraindicated drug or medication was
administered.
75.
Indicate if the plaintiff was transported to a hospital. Specify who transported the
plaintiff to the hospital. Indicate if the plaintiff requested to be taken to a specific
hospital. Identify the hospital to which the plaintiff was taken. Indicate what time
the plaintiff was transported from the scene to the hospital and with whom if anyone
she was accompanied by.
76.
If it is claimed that emergency personnel lacked equipment to adequately provide
aid, describe the equipment alleged to have been missing, and why such equipment
is believed to have been missing. Describe how the alleged lack of equipment
affected the patient's condition, injury, or illness.
77.
State whether a claim is made as to defective equipment.
(a)
If such a claim is made, identify the equipment and state the nature
of the defect.
(b)
If notice of such a defect is a prerequisite to liability, state whether
actual or constructive notice is claimed.
(c)
If constructive notice is claimed, state how long the condition
existed.
78.
State separately the acts or omissions constituting the alleged negligence and/or
medical malpractice of each of the named defendants.
79.
State the manner in which it is claimed the alleged injury arose.
80.
State separately the acts of each of the named defendants constituting the intentional
wrongs claimed, if any.
81.
State the names of the employee(s) or agents of the answering defendant who are
alleged to have committed the acts set forth in the paragraphs above.
82.
If it is claimed that the answering defendant violated any statute, ordinance, rule,
order, requirement or regulation, state separately and specifically all such statutes
ordinances, rules or regulations alleged to have been violated by the answering
defendant, as well as any statute, ordinance, rule, order, requirement or regulation
claimed to have been violated by each of the named defendants.
18 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2022
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
83.
State all injuries claimed as the result of the alleged negligence of the answering
defendant herein, and state specifically which of the above injuries are claimed to be
permanent in nature.
84.
For actions other than for wrongful death, state the length of time the plaintiff was
confined to each of the following by virtue of the acts or omissions of the answering
defendant(s) herein.
(a)
Hospital, listing separately each period of hospitalization with the
name
and
address
of
each
hospital.
(b)
Home.
(c)
Bed.
85.
Set forth the amount claimed as special damages for:
(a) Physician(s) services;
(b) Nurses services;
(c) Hospital expenses;
(d) Drugs and medical supplies and/or equipment;
(e) X-rays and diagnostic tests;
(f) Rehabilitative and/or therapy services;
(g) Home health services;
(h) Any other expenses claimed.
86.
For each of the foregoing elements of damages please state the name and address(es)
of the provider(s), pharmacies, the dates of treatment and/or dates of use and list of prescriptions/medications
filled. If any of the foregoing elements of damages have been repaid to the plaintiff or otherwise paid for by
other sources, identify each type of service recompensed, the source or sources of such recompense, the
amount SO paid and the net amount of out of pocket expenses sustained by the plaintiff.
87.
Set forth:
(a) Occupation of plaintiff(s) at the time of the occurrence;
(b) Whether each plaintiff was self-employed, and, if so, state the address of his or
her place of employment and the nature of the business or occupation in which he or she was engaged
immediately prior to the occurrence.
(c) Name and address of each plaintiff's employer, if any;
(d) Average weekly, monthly and/or annual gross earnings;
(e) State separately, the length of time totally and/or partially disabled;
(f) Amount claimed for lost earnings, if any;
(g) Number of days lost from work;
(h) Number of days lost from school;
(i) Name and address of school attended by plaintiff(s) at the time of the date of
accident.
88.
Provide each plaintiff's present residence address and each plaintiff's residence
address at the time of the occurrence.
89.
List all other names used by plaintiff(s).
90.
List plaintiff(s) date(s) of birth and social security number(s).
DEMAND FOR DISCOVERY & INSPECTION
PLEASE TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that within 30 days following service of this
demand you are requested pursuant to CPLR Article 31 to produce for discovery and inspection at the Office
of the Corporation Counsel, the following items, except if at present you don't know the information
requested, or if the requested documents are not within your possession or control, please SO state, in which
event you are requested to furnish same within 30 days after such information first becomes known to you, or
such documents come into your possession or control: but, in any event, no later than sixty days before trial.
19 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2022E
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
GENERAL DEMANDS
1. If the City of New York, New York City Department of Education and/or New
York
City Health and Hospitals is a named defendant, please identify the agency(s) involved.
2. For each person you believe may have been a witness to the incident which caused an
injury, state (a) the name of the individual(s); and (b) the current home address, if not then, last known
address; (c) employment address; (d)email mail address or other electronic address including social media
contact information; and (e) phone number of the individual(s). If you are unable to provide any of the above
information, please provide a description reasonably sufficient to identify each person you believe may have
been a witness. This demand includes all individuals, even if employed by any of the parties.
3.
For each person you believe may have been a witness to the condition which allegedly
caused an injury, please state (a) the name of the individual(s); (b) the current address, if not then, last known
address; (c) employment address; (d) email mail address or other electronic address including social media
contact information, if known; and (e) phone number of the individual(s). If you are unable to provide any of
the above information, please provide a description reasonably sufficient to identify each person you believe
may have been a witness. This demand includes all individuals, even if employed by any of the parties.
4. For each person you believe may be a witness to an injury alleged in this lawsuit, please
state (a) the name of the individual(s); (b) the current address, if not then, last known address; (c)
employment address; (d) email mail address or other electronic address including social media contact
information, if known; and (e) phone number of the individual(s). If you are unable to provide any
of
the
above information, please provide a description reasonably sufficient to identify each person you believe
may have been a witness. This demand includes all individuals, even if employed by any of the parties.
5. For each expert witness whom you expect to call at trial, please state the (a) name of the
expert; (b) business address of the expert; (c) qualifications of the expert; (d) curriculum vitae of the expert;
(e) subject matter in reasonable detail that the expert is expected to testify; (f) substance of the facts and
opinions on which each expert is expected to testify; and (g) a summary of the grounds for each opinion.
6. If any sum has been paid or promised to plaintiff(s) by any person claimed to be liable
(within the meaning of § 15-108, General Obligations Law) for any of the injuries (or damages) alleged in
the complaint, please set forth the name(s) and address(es) of the person(s), corporation(s), insurance
company(s), or other entity(s) making such payment or promise and state the amount(s) which have been, or
will be, with reasonable certainty received by plaintiff(s).
7. For each person you believe may have provided an oral, written, or digital media
(including audio/video/text message/email, social media) statement about the incident, please state (a) the
name of the individual(s); (b) the current address, if not then, last known address; (c) employment address;
(d) email mail address or other electronic address including social media contact information, if known; and
(e) phone number of the individual(s). If you are unable to provide any of the above information, please
provide a description reasonably sufficient to identify each person you believe may have been a witness. This
demand includes all individuals, even if employed by any of the parties.
8. Furnish a copy of each document you believe may have been prepared by the answering
defendant(s) concerning the occurrence of the injuries (or damages) alleged in the complaint, or which may
be relevant to the prosecution or defense of the case and used by any party for any purpose in this litigation,
including any statement made by any person identified in response to Item 6 above, and any note,
memorandum or recording of any oral, written and digital media statement or social media posts.
9. Furnish the sum and substance of any unrecorded oral statement you believe may have
been given by each defendant (or employee, or former employee, of a defendant) concerning the occurrence
of the injuries (or damages) alleged in the complaint, or which you intend to use for any purpose in this
litigation.
10. Provide a copy of any (a) any insurance claim arising out of the incident alleged in this
lawsuit; (b) any workers' compensation claim arising out of the incident alleged in this lawsuit; (c) any
pension claim arising out of the incident alleged in this lawsuit; (d) any no-fault claim arising out of the
incident alleged in this lawsuit; and (e) any other claim seeking redress for the incident alleged in the lawsuit.
11. Furnish a copy of any Freedom of Information Law request made to the answering
defendant(s) and any response thereto, which you intend to use for any purpose in this litigation.
12. Furnish copies of any subpoenas served on any party, or any other individual or entity
concerning this litigation.
20 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/202
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
13. Provide a copy of any transcript of testimony involving the incident alleged in the
lawsuit (including (but not limited to) any examinations under oath, transcript or materials related to a
Department of Motor Vehicle hearing, departmental hearing, and criminal proceeding).
14. Provide a signed copy of any hearing held pursuant to General Municipal Law § 50-h.
15. Please furnish a copy of each accident or incident report, if any, made by, or on
behalf or your client(s) concerning the occurrence/incident of the injuries (or damages) alleged in
the complaint.
16. Furnish a copy of any written notice, Big Apple Corporation map or other document
giving notice of an allegedly defective or dangerous condition at the place where the injuries (or damages)
alleged in the complaint occurred, prior to the occurrence thereof.
17. Furnish a reasonably clear color or digital copy of each photograph and or each video
depicting the place where the injuries (or damages) alleged in the complaint occurred.
18. If plaintiff(s) intend(s) on utilizing any physical evidence at trial, please (a) provide a
color or digital photograph or video of the physical evidence; and (b) make the physical evidence available
for inspection.
19. In any action for injuries, including death, allegedly sustained by a spouse, child or other
family member of a plaintiff, please furnish a copy of each marriage, birth and death certificate, as
applicable.
20. In any representative action, please furnish a copy of the court order appointing the
representative.
21. With respect to any earnings (or profits) claimed to have been lost as a result of the
injuries (or damages) alleged in the complaint, please furnish a copy of each state and each federal income
tax return including any employment and payroll records, W-2 statements, together with attachments, filed
by, or on behalf of, plaintiff(s) for the year in which the said injuries (or damages) occurred and for each of
the three (3) preceding years, and for all years in which continuing losses are claimed.
22. In any action for wrongful death, please furnish a copy of the federal estate tax return
filed for decedent's estate, and a copy of each state and each federal income tax return, including W-2
statements, filed by, or on behalf of the decedent for each of the three (3) years before death.
23. Furnish a copy of each medical provider's report, diagnostic films, and medical bills,
including pharmaceutical bills and bills for durable medical goods, with ICD-codes, referring to any
physical, psychiatric or psychological examination of plaintiff(s) conducted after the occurrence of the
injuries alleged in the complaint, or any treatment reasonably related thereto.
24. Furnish a copy of each medical provider's report and diagnostic film(s) referring to any
physical, psychiatric or psychological examination of plaintiff(s) conducted before the occurrence of the
injuries alleged in the complaint and reasonably related thereto.
25. Provide duly executed OCA HIPAA compliant and Arons authorizations (which
expire upon the conclusion of this case) permitting the Office of the Corporation Counsel to (a) obtain each
document referring to any treatment of plaintiff(s) (including psychological treatment) for any injury alleged
in this lawsuit; and (b) speak with any medical provider which provided any treatment to plaintiff(s). This
demand includes treatment which is reasonably related to any injury alleged in this lawsuit. Please utilize
form located New York State Unified Court System webpage located at www.nycourts.gov.
26. In any action by or on behalf of a student, please furnish duly executed authorizations
permitting the Office of the Corporation Counsel to examine and copy the school, attendance and health
records of the plaintiff(s) on file at the school(s) attended for three (3) years before the occurrence, at the
time of the occurrence, and thereafter for all years in which continuing losses are claimed.
27.
If plaintiff(s) received workers' compensation benefits, please provide (a) duly
executed authorizations (which expire upon the conclusion of this case) permitting the Office of the
Corporation Counsel to obtain the workers' compensation file; and (b) a copy of the worker's compensation
file.
28. If plaintiff(s) received no fault benefits, please provide (a) duly executed
authorizations (which expire upon the conclusion of this case) permitting the Office of the Corporation
Counsel to obtain the no fault file; (b) a copy of the no fault file.
29. If plaintiff(s) allege(s) economic loss, please provide duly executed authorizations
(which expire upon the conclusion of this case) permitting the Office of the Corporation Counsel to obtain
records on file at the last employer.
21 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2022E
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
30.
State whether plaintiff(s) is (are) currently receiving, has applied for or is eligible for
Social Security Disability payments. If plaintiff(s) is (are) currently receiving Social Security Disability
payments, please identify when eligibility began and identify his/her SSDI number and the medical condition
on which basis coverage was awarded. If plaintiff(s) has (have) received Social Security Disability payments
at any point in the past, please identify the period or periods of time when plaintiff(s) was (were) eligible and
identify his/her SSDI number and medical condition on which basis coverage was awarded.
31. If, in your response to the prior request, you indicated plaintiff(s) has (have) ever
applied for or been eligible for Social Security Disability payments, please provide (a) copies of all
social security disability records, including the completed disability application, determination, and
decision; and (b) duly executed authorizations (which expire upon the conclusion of this case)
permitting the Office of the Corporation Counsel to obtain Social Security disability records from
the Social Security Administration.
32.
Identify all health care benefits, including but not limited to private health insurance
carriers and public health care programs (e.g., Medicaid), plaintiff(s) has (have) received or which plaintiff(s)
will become eligible to receive as a result of injuries allegedly related to the subject accident/incident and
provide copies of each plaintiff's identification cards for all identified health care programs and all
Explanation of Benefits (EOB) statements related to the subject accident/incident.
33.
State whether plaintiff(s) is (are) or has (have) ever been a Medicare recipient and, if
so, provide each plaintiff's Medicare Beneficiary Identifier (MBI) and a copy of his/her MBI card. If no card
is available, please provide the date eligibility began. If plaintiff(s) has (have) received Medicare coverage at
some point in the past and no MBI card is available, please identify the period or periods of time when
plaintiff(s) was (were) eligible.
34. Furnish the name, Bar license number, phone number, email address, and mailing
address of the attorney(s) who have appeared in this action.
35. Furnish the names of the parties, the court, and the index/docket number of each other
action, if any, commenced by or on behalf of plaintiff(s) concerning any of the injuries (or damages) alleged
in the complaint.
DEMANDS FOR COLLATERAL SOURCE INFORMATION
36. Entities that have provided payments for medical and/or mental heath treatment.
Identify by name, address, phone number, email address, web address, and policy number, any source that
has provided payments to plaintiff(s), or to each plaintiff's spouse, domestic partner, or parent for medical,
dental, rehabilitative, custodial or psychological treatment (including medication, diagnostic tests) received
by plaintiff as a result of this accident. Provide HIPAA and Arons authorizations and hard copies of any
records in your possession for any source listed.
37. Entities that have provided payments on account of disability. Identify by name,
address, phone number, email address, web address, and policy number, any source that has provided
payments to plaintiff(s), by reason of each plaintiff's partial or total inability to work. Provide HIPAA and
Arons authorizations and hard copies of any records in your possession for any source listed.
38. Entities from which plaintiff(s) is (are) eligible to receive medical coverage. Identify by
name, address, phone number, email address, web address, and policy number, any source from which each
plaintiff is eligible to receive medical coverage for the injuries received in this accident whether or not
plaintiff(s) has (have) actually applied for such benefits. Provide HIPAA and Arons authorizations and hard
copies of any records in your possession for any source listed.
39. Entities from which plaintiff(s) is (are) eligible to receive disability benefits. Identify
any source by name, address, phone number, email address, web address, and policy number, any source
from which plaintiff would be eligible to receive payments in the event of each plaintiff's partial or total
inability to work, whether or not plaintiff(s) has (have) applied for or received such benefits. Provide HIPAA
and Arons authorizations and hard copies of any records in your possession for any source listed.
40. Entities to which plaintiff(s) has (have) applied for medical benefits. Identify any source
by name, address, phone number, email address, web address, and policy number, any source to which
plaintiff(s), or each plaintiff's spouse, domestic partner, or parent, has submitted claims or applied for
benefits for medical, dental, rehabilitative, custodial or psychological treatment (including medication)
received by plaintiff as a result of this accident whether or not such benefits were received. Provide HIPAA
22 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 302379/202
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
and Arons authorizations and hard copies of any records in your possession for any source listed, including
applications for benefits.
41. Entities to which plaintiff(s) has (have) applied for disability benefits. Identify any
source by name, address, phone number, email address, web address, and policy number, any entity to which
an application has been made for payments by reason of partial or total inability to work, whether or not
plaintiff(s) has (have) received such benefits. Provide HIPAA and Arons authorizations and hard copies of
any records in your possession for any source listed, including applications for benefits.
42. Entities to which plaintiff(s) has (have) paid premiums to obtain medical or disability
coverage. Identify any entity by name, address, phone number, email address, web address, and policy
number to which plaintiff(s), or each plaintiff's spouse, domestic partner, or parent paid premiums to obtain
medical or disability coverage for two years prior to the incident. Provide HIPAA and Arons authorizations
and hard copies of any records in your possession for proof of such payment of premiums.
PLEASE TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that this is a continuing demand. Pursuant to N.Y.
C.P.L.R. 3101(h) you are required to amend or supplement any response previously given to this demand
promptly upon obtaining information that the previous response was incorrect or incomplete when made, or
that the previous response, though current and complete when made, no longer is correct and complete.
ALLEGED POLICE MISCONDUCT
Where applicable, in addition to the foregoing, if plaintiff(s) allege police misconduct,
the following items are additionally demanded:
43. Provide duly executed authorizations (which expire upon the conclusion of this case)
permitting the Office of the Corporation Counsel to obtain records pertaining to all criminal proceedings
related to the incident alleged in this lawsuit. Please provide a separate authorization for each entity which
maintains these records (including (but not limited to) the Office of the District Attorney, the New York City
Police Department, and criminal court).
44. Provide copies of records pertaining to all criminal proceedings related to the incident
alleged in the lawsuit, including (but not limited to) transcripts, certificates of disposition, police records,
criminal records, District Attorney records, and photographs, including copies of any photographs of the
plaintiff(s) taken by the defendant(s) at the time of the arrest.
45. If entitlement to reimbursement for legal fees is claimed, please provide copies of any
bills incurred.
46. Provide the name, address, and phone number of any attorney representing
plaintiff(s) concerning the criminal charges related to the incident alleged in this lawsuit.
47. Provide copies of all discovery exchanged between plaintiff(s), each plaintiff's
criminal defense attorney and District Attorney office pursuant to NY CLS CPL § 245.20 for the
incident alleged in this lawsuit.
ALLEGED PROPERTY DAMAGE
Where applicable, in addition to the foregoing, if plaintiff(s) allege property damage,
the following items are additionally demanded:
48. For each item of property damaged:
(a) Photograph(s) and or videotapes depicting the items alleged to have been
damaged, prior to damage;
(b) Photograph(s) and or videotapes depicting items alleged to have been damaged,
subsequent to damage;
(c) Original purchase receipts, cancelled checks, and/or charge slips for items
alleged to have been damaged;
(d) Appraisals, warranties, etc. pertaining to the items alleged to have been
damaged.
49. True and accurate copies of any and all insurance agreements held by plaintiff(s) on day
of said incident and pertaining to property damage and/or loss.
50. True and accurate copies of any and all notices of loss or claims made on the above
policies pertaining to the damage alleged in the complaint.
23 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 302379/202
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
ALLEGED NEGLIGENT SUPERVISION
Where applicable, in addition to the foregoing, if plaintiff(s) allege negligent
supervision, the following items are additionally demanded:
51. For every individual who allegedly failed to provide adequate supervision, please state
(a) the name of the individual; (b) the address and phone number of the individual; (c) the name of the entity
who employs the individual; (d) the title of the individual; (e) the date that the individual failed to provide
adequate supervision; and (f) the time that the individual failed to provide adequate supervision. If you are
unable to provide any of the above information, please provide a description reasonably sufficient to identify
each individual. This demand includes all individuals, even if employed by any of the parties.
52. Identify the name or names of the person(s) it is alleged received inadequate supervision.
53. Provide the name(s) of any person(s) plaintiff(s) will claim assaulted him/her with
reference to the claim being asserted against the answering defendant(s).
54. If the person(s) identified in above have not yet appeared in this action, please provide
copies of all documents, including but not limited to, affidavits of service and correspondence, which reflect
any attempt to obtain jurisdiction over the individual(s).
55. Provide copies of any documents filed with or against any governmental agency(s)
concerning the actions of any person(s) whom plaintiff(s) alleges caused the damages alleged in the
complaint, including any criminal complaints filed and the disposition thereof.
56. For each individual you believe may have provided an oral or written statement
concerning the supervision of any person involved in the incident, state (a) the name of any individual who
provided a statement; and (b) the address and phone number of any individual who provided a statement. If
you are unable to provide any of the above information, please provide a description reasonably sufficient to
identify each person you believe may have provided a statement. This demand includes all individuals, even
if employed by any of the parties.
ALLEGED PREMISES LIABILITY
Where applicable, in addition to the foregoing, if plaintiff(s) alleges that defendant(s)
failed to properly maintain a premises, the following items are additionally demanded:
57. If it is alleged that the answering defendant owned the premises complained of, please
provide copies of any documents you will rely upon to establish defendant(s) ownership of the premises.
58. If it is alleged that the answering defendant(s) leased the premises complained of, please
provide copies of any documents you will rely upon to establish defendant(s) tenancy.
59. Provide copies of any written lease(s) pertaining to the plaintiff(s) occupancy of the
premises.
60. Provide copies of any documents or writings plaintiff(s) allege were sent to the
defendant(s) concerning the condition of the premises, complaints made concerning the premises, and copies
of any documents relating to any legal proceedings commenced by or against plaintiff(s) pertaining to their
occupancy of the premises.
MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENTS
Where applicable, in addition to the foregoing, if plaintiff(s) alleges that defendant(s)
contributed to a motor vehicle accident, the following items are additionally demanded:
61. Provide a copy of the title for the vehicle being operated by plaintiff(s).
62. Provide a copy of each plaintiff's driver's license.
63. Provide a copy of the registration for the vehicle in which plaintiff(s) was located when
the incident occurred.
64. Provide a copy of any (a) repair record (including logs, bills, and receipts) for the
vehicle in which plaintiff(s) was located for a two-year period prior to the alleged incident; and (b)
maintenance records (including logs, bills, and receipts) for the vehicle in which plaintiff(s) was located for a
two-year period prior to the alleged incident.
65. Provide a copy of any recall notice received regarding the vehicle in which plaintiff(s)
was located when the incident occurred.
66. Provide photographs taken of the vehicle(s) involved in the accident taken:
(a) Before the accident;
(b) After the accident.
24 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 302379/202
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
67. Provide any estimates to repair the vehicle involved in this accident.
68. Provide any records or receipts for towing of the vehicle involved in this accident.
69. Provide a copy of the MV-104 filed by, or on behalf of, the plaintiff(s) as a result of this
accident.
70. Provide a copy of any accident report provided to any insurance company regarding this
accident.
71. Provide any notes or memorandum describing this accident.
72. Provide a copy of any transcript of any Department of Motor Vehicle hearing taken with
respect to this accident.
73. Provide the date, location, name of defendant or respondent, and name of Judicial
Hearing Officer who presided over, any Department of Motor Vehicle hearing taken with respect to this
accident.
74. Provide a copy of any insurance policy (including any umbrella or excess policy)
covering the vehicle in which plaintiff(s) was located at the time of the incident.
75. Provide a copy of the no-fault file, including no-fault provided medical claims,
pertaining to plaintiff(s).
ALLEGED DEFAMATION
Where applicable, in addition to the foregoing, if plaintiff(s) alleges that defendant(s)
defamed plaintiff(s), the following items are additionally demanded:
76. Provide a copy of any writing, publication (including any re-publications), and broadcast
containing the alleged defamatory statement(s).
77. Provide copies of any documents, photographs, or writings which plaintiff(s) intend
to
use to demonstrate the untruthfulness of the alleged defamatory statement(s).
78. Provide copies of any documents, photographs, or writings which plaintiff(s) intend to
use to demonstrate defendant(s) malice or reckless disregard for the truth.
79. Provide the name of any individual who you believe has information concerning the
untruthfulness of the alleged defamatory statement(s) or whether the statements were made with malice or
reckless disregard for the truth, stating(a) the name of the individual(s); (b) the current address, if not then,
last known address; (c) employment address; (d) email mail address or other electronic address including
social media contact information, if known; and (e) phone number of the individual(s). If you are unable to
provide any of the above information, please provide a description reasonably sufficient to identify each
person. This demand includes all individuals, even if employed by any of the parties.
80. Provide copies of any documents, bills, invoices or writings which plaintiff(s) intend to
use to prove any alleged special damages.
ALLEGED LEAD-BASED PAINT
Where applicable, in addition to the foregoing, if plaintiff(s) alleges injuries as a result
of exposure to lead-based paint, the following items are additionally demanded:
81. Provide duly executed OCA HIPAA compliant authorizations (which expire upon the
conclusion of this case) allowing the Corporation Counsel to obtain birth and prenatal records of plaintiff(s);
the authorization must include the name and address of the hospital or facility where plaintiff(s) was born
and the date of birth of plaintiff(s).
82. Provide duly executed OCA HIPAA compliant authorizations (which expire upon the
conclusion of this case) allowing the Corporation Counsel to obtain the records of any medical provider who
provided prenatal care; the authorization must include the name and addresses of each medical provider and
the dates of treatment.
83. Provide duly executed OCA HIPAA compliant authorizations (which expire upon the
conclusion of this case) allowing the Corporation Counsel to obtain the records of all (a) health providers
who have rendered pediatric care (including treatment for any of the injuries currently alleged) to plaintiff(s);
and (b) health care providers that screened blood of plaintiff(s). The authorizations must contain the name
and address of each medical provider as well as the dates of treatment or testing.
25 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/20221
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF 04/11/2022
84. Provide duly executed authorizations enabling defendant(s) to obtain the records of any
and all schools, and/or day care centers attended by the plaintiff(s) to date; the authorizations must include
the name(s) and address(es) of the schools and the dates of attendance.
85. Provide the name and address of the academic institution most recently attended by the
infant plaintiff's natural mother and a duly executed authorization allowing that institution to release its
records to the defendant(s). If the infant plaintiff's mother is not the custodial parent, please provide the
same information with respect to any adult acting as the infant plaintiff's guardian or caretaker.
86. If the infant plaintiff has any siblings, please provide the following for each such sibling:
(a) Name, date of birth and current address;
(b) Names and addresses of any and all schools, pre-schools or day-care centers
attended, and duly executed authorizations allowing those institutions to release their records to the
defendant(s).
87. For each infant plaintiff, provide the name, date of birth and last known address of the
biological father.
88. Provide copies of any photographs, movies, or videotapes depicting the premises.
89. Provide copies of any written lease(s) pertaining to the plaintiff(s) occupancy of the
premises.
90. Provide copies of any documents or writings plaintiff(s) allege were sent to the
defendant(s) concerning the condition of the premises, complaints made concerning the premises, and copies
of any documents relating to any legal proceedings commenced by or against plaintiff(s) pertaining to their
occupancy of the premises.
DEMANDS TO OTHER PARTIES (EXCLUDING PLAINTIFF(S))
PLEASE TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that within 30 days following service of this
demand, all other parties (excluding plaintiff(s)) are requested pursuant to CPLR Article 31 to produce for
discovery and inspection at the Office of the Corporation Counsel, the following items, except if at present
you don't know the information requested, or if the requested documents are not within your possession or
control, please SO state, in which event you are requested to furnish same within 30 days after such
information first becomes known to you, or such documents come into your possession or control: but, in any
event, no later than forty-five days before trial.
GENERAL DEMANDS TO PARTIES (EXCLUDING PLAINTIFF(S))
1. Provide copies of complete contents of insurance policies in effect on the date of
occurrence, including all endorsements, terms, and conditions, including but not limited to, any which name
this answering defendant(s) as an insured or as an additionally insured.
2. Provide copies of all excess and umbrella insurance policies in effect on date
of
occurrence, including but not limited to, any which name this answering defendant(s) as an insured or as an
additionally insured.
3. Provide copies of all certificates of insurance in effect on the date of occurrence,
including but not limited to, any which name this defendant, or any of its agencies, as an insured or as an
additionally insured.
4. Copies of all contracts, sub-contracts, leases, franchises, and indemnification agreements
in effect on date of occurrence.
5. Provide copies of any documents, records or photographs relating to any repairs made to
the location, premises or item complained of in plaintiff(s) complaint prior to the happening of the alleged
accident or occurrence.
6. Provide copies of any documents, records or logs relating to any maintenance (including
cleaning, altering, and shoveling) performed at, or to, the location, premises, or item complained of in
plaintiff(s) complaint prior to the happening of the alleged accident or occurrence.
7. Copies of all accident reports kept in the regular course of business regarding the
occurrence complained of in each plaintiff's complaint.
8. Provide a copy of plaintiff(s) Bill of Particulars and any discovery items previously
exchanged, (including but not limited to; deposition transcripts and reports of physical examinations
conducted of the plaintiff(s)), and served upon or by defendant(s) or third-party defendant(s).
26 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/20221
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
DEMANDS TO OTHER PARTIES (EXCLUDING PLAINTIFF(S)) INVOLVING ALLEGED
ROADWAY, SIDEWALK, AND CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS
Where applicable, in addition to the foregoing, in any action alleging defective
roadway, sidewalk, or construction, the following items are additionally demanded:
9.
Provide copies of all applications for permits, cut forms, opening tickets, work tickets,
and paving orders.
10. Provide copies of all drawings, schematics, blueprints, strip maps, diagrams of
underground facilities and of street hardware, including manhole covers, castings, and gratings.
11. Provide copies of all daily, weekly, and/or monthly progress reports, job progress
photographs, and photographs of roadway color coding for entire period of construction.
12. Provide copies of all maintenance, inspection and repair records for the entire period of
construction.
DEMANDS TO OTHER PARTIES (EXCLUDING PLAINTIFF(S)) INVOLVING MOTOR
VEHICLE ACCIDENTS
Where applicable, in addition to the foregoing, in any action in which it is alleged that
defendant(s) contributed to a motor vehicle accident, the following items are additionally demanded:
13. Provide a copy of the title for any vehicle involved in the incident.
14. Provide a copy of the driver's license for the applicable driver(s) involved in the
incident.
15. Provide a copy of the registration for the applicable vehicle(s) involved in the incident.
16. Provide the following records for the applicable vehicle(s) involved in the incident for
a
two-year period prior to the alleged incident: (a) repair records (including logs, bills, and receipts); and (b)
maintenance records (including logs, bills, and receipts).
17. Provide a copy of any recall notice received regarding any vehicle involved in the
incident.
18. Provide photographs of any vehicle involved in the accident taken:
(a) before the accident;
(b) after the accident.
19. Provide any estimates to repair the vehicle(s) involved in this accident.
20. Provide any records or receipts for towing of the vehicle(s) involved in this accident.
21. Provide a copy of any MV-104 related to the incident.
22. Provide a copy of any Department of Motor Vehicle hearing related to the incident; and
provide (a) the date, location, name of the parties, and name of Judicial Hearing Officer who presided over
any Department of Motor Vehicle hearing.
23. Provide a copy of any accident report provided to any insurance company regarding this
accident.
24. Provide any notes or memorandum describing this accident.
25. Provide a copy of any insurance policy, including any umbrella or excess policies,
covering the vehicle defendant(s) or third-party plaintiff(s) was (were) operating at the time of this accident.
26. Provide a copy of any no-fault file pertaining to plaintiff(s) related to the incident.
ADDITIONAL DEMANDS TO ANY THIRD-PARTY PLAINTIFF WHO HAS AN ACTION
AGAINST A PARTY REPRESENTED BY THE CORPORATION COUNSEL
PLEASE TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that within 30 days following service of this
demand, any third party-plaintiff who has an action against a party represented by the Corporation Counsel,
it is requested pursuant to CPLR Article 31 to produce for discovery and inspection at the Office of the
Corporation Counsel, the following items, except if at present you don't know the information requested, or
if the requested documents are not within your possession or control, please SO state, in which event you are
requested to furnish same within 30 days after such information first becomes known to you, or such
documents come into your possession or control: but, in any event, no later than forty-five days before trial.
27 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2022E
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
27. Provide a copy of any document (with all attachments) previously exchanged by the
parties (including pleadings, bills of particulars, deposition transcripts, medical records, correspondence,
motions, discovery responses, etc.).
28. Provide a copy of all court orders and stipulations issued in the litigation.
DEMAND FOR VERIFIED BILL OF PARTICULARS TO ANY THIRD-PARTY PLAINTIFF WHO
HAS AN ACTION AGAINST A PARTY REPRESENTED BY THE CORPORATION COUNSEL
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that pursuant to CPLR 3041, any third party-plaintiff who has
an action against a party represented by the Corporation Counsel is required within 30 days following service
of this demand to serve upon HON. SYLVIA O. HINDS-RADIX, Corporation Counsel, a verified bill of
particulars setting forth in reasonable detail a statement of the following:
1. State separately the alleged negligence of any party represented by the Corporation
Counsel, if applicable.
2. State separately the alleged intentional wrongs committed by any party represented by
the Corporation Counsel, if applicable.
3. State the name of any employee or agent of any party represented by the Corporation
Counsel alleged to have committed any act which contributed to an injury.
4. State (a) whether any repair was made to the accident location prior to the happening of
the alleged accident; (b) when any repair was made; (c) where any repair was made; (d) who made any
repair; and (e) what repairs were made.
5. State (a) whether any party represented by the Corporation Counsel had notice of an
alleged defective condition which contributed to an injury; (b) which party had notice; (c) whether the party
had actual notice of a condition; (d) whether the party had constructive notice of a condition; and (e) whether
it is alleged that the party created the condition.
6. If actual notice is claimed, please state (a) the name of any individual(s) who had actual
notice; (b) the job title of any individual(s) who had actual notice; (c) the employer of any individual(s) who
had actual notice; and (d) the address and phone number of any individual(s) who had actual notice. If you
are unable to provide any of the above information, please provide a description reasonably sufficient to
identify each person you believe may have had actual notice. This demand includes all individuals, even if
employed by any of the parties.
7. If constructive notice of a condition is claimed, please state the alleged condition and the
length of time said condition is alleged to have existed prior to the happening of the alleged incident.
8. If third-party plaintiff(s) claim(s) the violation of any statute, ordinance, rule, order,
regulation, or directive, please state separately all such statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations, and directives
alleged to have been violated by any party represented by the Corporation Counsel.
9. If applicable, please state whether any party represented by the Corporation Counsel was
a party to a contract; and please state the:
(c) parties to the contract;
(d) contract number.
28 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2022E
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
10. If applicable, please state any item of construction, excavation, and demolition work
which was not SO constructed, shored, equipped, guarded, arranged, operated, and conducted as to provide
reasonable and adequate safety; and please state (a) the manner in which the work caused an alleged injury;
and (b) if applicable, the control exercised by any party represented by the Corporation Counsel and the
exact manner in which said control was exercised.
Dated:
New York, New York
April
, 2022
Yours, etc.
HON. SYLVIA O. HINDS-RADIX
Corporation Counsel
Attorney for Defendant THE CITY OF NEW
YORK,
100 Church Street
New York, New York 10007
TO:
HELD & HINES, LLP
the attorney(s) for Plaintiff(s)
2004 Ralph Avenue
Brooklyn, NY 11234
29 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2022E
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF BRONX
X
DAVID BOOKMAN,
NOTICE OF DEPOSITION
Plaintiff(s),
-against-
Index #: 802379/2022E
CITY OF NEW YORK, R.N.D.C. DEPUTY WARDEN JOHN
Law Dept. #: 2021-023707
DOE, AND CORRECTION OFFICERS JOHN DOE 1-5,
FICTITIOUS NAMES USED TO IDENTIFY PRESENTLY
UNKNOWN DEPUTY WARDEN AND CORRECTION
OFFICERS HEREIN,
Defendant(s).
X
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE, that pursuant to Article 31 of the Civil Practice Law and Rules,
the undersigned will take by deposition the testimony of all adverse parties at a time and date to be mutually
agreed upon at the pre-calendar conference.
PLEASE TAKE FURTHER NOTICE, that at the time of the taking of the testimony the
said adverse parties shall produce all books and papers in their possession relating to the issues upon which
said parties are to be examined and upon your failure to SO produce them, parol and/or secondary evidence
thereof and of the contents of the same will be required.
Yours, etc.
HON. SYLVIA O. HINDS-RADIX
Corporation Counsel
Attorney for Defendant THE CITY OF NEW
YORK,
100 Church Street
New York, New York 10007
TO:
HELD & HINES, LLP
the attorney(s) for Plaintiff(s)
2004 Ralph Avenue
Brooklyn, NY 11234
30 of 32
FILED: BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2022
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
VERIFICATION
ADAM LERMAN an attorney admitted to practice before the Courts of the State of New York, affirms pursuant to
Rule 2106 of the Civil Practice Laws and Rules: affirmant is an employee of the Office of the Corporation Counsel;
that affirmant has read the foregoing answer, cross-claim(s) and counterclaim(s), if any, and knows the contents
thereof; that the same are true to affirmant's own knowledge, except as to the matters alleged upon information and
belief, which affirmant believes to be true based upon the files, books and records maintained by The City of New
York, New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation or the New York City Board/Department of Education, and
the officers or agents thereof; and further affirms that on this date he/she served said answer, cross-claim(s) and
counterclaim(s), if any, together with the accompanying combined demands for particulars and discovery upon:
HELD & HINES, LLP
the attorney(s) for Plaintiff(s)
at 2004 Ralph Avenue
Brooklyn, NY 11234
by e-filing a copy on the New York State Courts E-filing system within this e-filed matter.
Dated:
New York, New York
April 11, 2022
Adam L Lerman
ADAM LERMAN
STIPULATION/CERTIFICATION
IT IS HEREBY STIPULATED AND AGREED, that at any time prior to the filing of a note of issue in this action,
plaintiff(s) may amend the complaint to name additional defendants herein, provided that such additional defendants
shall not include the City of New York, the Board/Department of Education, Health & Hospitals Corporation, City
University of New York, or any of their respective departments, subdivisions or employees, nor any other person
entitled to defense or indemnification by the City of New York.
The signature below shall constitute the signature required pursuant to NYCRR 130-1.1-a and pertains to all of the
enclosed documents: answer, cross-claim(s) and counter-claims(s), if any, together with the accompanying
combined demands for particulars and discovery.
Dated:
New York, New York
April 11, 2022
Adam L Lerman
By:
ADAM LERMAN
Assistant Corporation Counsel
Attorney(s) for Plaintiff(s)
Please do not send correspondence to the above named individual unless otherwise
directed. See Answer back for additional contact information.
31 of 32
FILED BRONX COUNTY CLERK 04/11/2022 03:03 PM
INDEX NO. 802379/2022E
NYSCEF DOC. NO. 4
RECEIVED NYSCEF: 04/11/2022
Index #: 802379/2022E
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF BRONX
DAVID BOOKMAN,
Plaintiff(s),
- against -
CITY OF NEW YORK, R.N.D.C. DEPUTY WARDEN JOHN DOE,
AND CORRECTION OFFICERS JOHN DOE 1-5, FICTITIOUS
NAMES USED TO IDENTIFY PRESENTLY UNKNOWN DEPUTY
WARDEN AND CORRECTION OFFICERS HEREIN,
Defendant(s).
ANSWER AND DEMANDS
HON. SYLVIA O. HINDS-RADIX
Corporation Counsel
Attorney for Defendant THE CITY OF NEW YORK,
100 Church Street
New York, New York 10007
Telephone Numbers:
Early Intervention Unit (settlements - all Boroughs)
(212) 356-1665
Pleadings Unit (212) 356-3235 (pleadings matters only)
All Other Matters (Inquire by county of venue)
Bronx Office: (718) 503-5030 (EBT's - 5045)
Brooklyn Office: (718) 724-5200 (EBT's-5226)
Manhattan Office: (212) 356-2725 (EBT's-2791)
Queens Office: (718) 558-2100 (EBT's - 2105)
Staten Island Office: (718) 876-3600 (EBT's-3603)
Please refer to the following Law Dept. #: 2021-023707
and indicate the County in which the action is pending in all papers,
correspondence and other communications with respect thereto.
32 of 32