In the Matter of the Claim of DAVID BOOKMAN,
Petitioner,
- against -
NOTICE OF CLAIM
THE CITY OF NEW YORK, THE NEW YORK
CITY DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS and
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS JANE and JOHN
DOE(s), individually and in their Official Capacities,
Respondents.
TO:
COMPTROLLER OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK and
THE NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that the undersigned claimant hereby makes al claim and
demands against you as follows:
1.
The name and post office address of each claimant and attorney is:
DAVID BOOKMAN, 241 W 101st Street, New York, NY 10026
ODDO & BABAT, P.C., Attorneys for Petitioner, 8 West 38th Street, Suite 1002,
New York, New York 10018; (212) 642-0950
2.
The nature of the claim:
Excessive force, Assault and Battery Intentional Infliction of emotional distress, Breach
of Duty to Protect, Failure to Exercise Appropriate Supervision, Deliberate Indifference
to Medical Needs, Municipal Liability, Negligence, Negligent Hiring, Training, and
Retention. and violation of petitioner's Civil Rights pursuant to 42 U.S.C. $1981, 1983
and 1985, among other laws and statutes, including violation of the Eighth Amendment
of the United States Constitution, and in violation of the rules and procedures of the New
York City Department of Corrections.
3.
The time when, the place where and the manner in which the claim arose:
The claim arose from incidents occurring on or about June 7, 2021 into June 9, 2021, at
Riker's Island in East Elmhurst, New York. This claim continues on an ongoing basis as
the claimant was denied and continues to be denied appropriate medical care, treatment
and pourishment in a manner and type consistent with his fractured jaw and surgical
procedure. AI the above mentioned time and place, the petitioner was confronted by
another inmate while Corrections Officer Jane Doc was present. Corrections Officer Jane
Doe failed to prevent the confrontation and left the room. When Officer Jane Doe left.
several inmates attacked the claimant. Officer John Doe came running in. and starting
violently swinging his fisis and struck the claimant in the jaw. Thereafter, the petitioner
was denied appropriate medical treatment and the proper nourishment which further
Notice of Claim - David Bookman
Page 2
exacerbated his injuries and, inter alia, lead to aggravation and exacerbation of those
conditions caused by the respondents.
As a direct result of the respondents' actions, petitioner, DAVID BOOKMAN, sustained
severe, permanent and disabling injuries of both a physical and emotional nature,
and
violations of his Civil Rights, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. $1981, 1983 and 1985. The above
named individual correction officers were acting within the course and scope of his
employment with The City of New York and The New York City Department of
Corrections at the time of the occurrence detailed herein. Said officers failed to exercise
adequate supervision, negligently left an inmate to be violently attacked, then violently
assaulted and attacked the petitiner, and/or negligently struck the petitioner, and failed to
provide adequate care and nourishment to prevent the above described aggravation and
exacerbation. The respondents, through their agents, servants and/or employees, acted
maliciously and wantonly in the above described actions. The City of New York
and
New York City Department of Corrections maintain policies and implement patterns and
practices which are the driving force of the constitutional violations suffered by the
petitioner.
4.
The items of damage or injuries claimed are:
Petitioner suffered serious and permanent injuries of an emotional and physical nature
including a fractured jaw that required surgical intervention and wiring his jaw shut. As
a
result of the assault and battery and negligence described above, petitioner was subjected
to injuries due to the lack of supervision of reasonably foreseeable harms, causing him to
suffer emotional distress, physical pain and suffering, and embarrassment and
humiliation, all in violation of his constitutionally protected rights. Petitioner is entitled
to attorneys' fees and costs of this matter pursuant to 42 U.S.C. $1988.
TOTAL AMOUNT CLAIMED:
FIVE MILLION ($5,000,000.00) DOLLARS, in addition to attorneys fees and related
costs pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 1988.
5.
The petitioner is requesting that the Department of Corrections and the City of New
York preserve and not destroy, alter or damage the surveillance footage maintained
relating to this incident.
NOTICE OF CLAIM - David Bookman
Page 3
The undersigned hereby presents this claim for adjustment and payment. You are hereby
notified that unless it is adjusted and paid within the time provided by law from the date of
presentation, the claimant intends to commence an action on this claim.
Dated: New York, New York
June 29, 2021
By:
ODDO Darred Seilback, & BABAI for Petitioner Esq. P.C.
Attorneys
8 West 38th Street, Suite 1002
New York, New York 10018
(212) 642-0950
File: 12257
VERIFICATION
STATE OF NEW YORK
)
COUNTY OF NEW YORK ) ss.:
The undersigned, an attorney admitted to practice in the State of New York, hereby
affirms that the undersigned has read the foregoing NOTICE OF CLAIM, knows the contents
thereof; that the same is true to affirmant's own knowledge, except as to the matters therein
stated to be alleged on information and belief, and as to those matters affirmant believes them to
be true.
The undersigned further states that the reason this verification is made by the
undersigned, and not the Petitioner, is that the Petitioner does not reside in the County in which
affirmant maintains an office. The grounds of affirmant's belief as to all matters not stated to be
upon affirmant's knowledge are as follows: Investigations and the contents of affirmant's file.
The undersigned affirms that the foregoing statements are true, under penalty of perjury.
Dated: New York, New York
June 29, 2021
DARREN SEILBACK
V
Sworn to before me this
30 day of June, 2021
NOTARY PMBUICHEW WAYNE SALIBA
Notary Public State of New York
No. 02SA6158340
Qualified in Queens County
Commission Expires Jan. 2, 2023