of
State
New
York
NYSCEF Payment Receipt
Bronx County Supreme Court
United
Court
System
The NYSCEF website has received your electronic filing. Please keep a copy for your records.
Index Number NOT assigned
DAVID BOOKMAN V. CITY OF NEW YORK et al
Documents Received on
02/15/2022 02:54 PM
Doc #
Document Type
Control #
Motion #
Fee
1
SUMMONS + COMPLAINT
$0.00
Index Fee
+ $210.00
Credit Card Service Fee:*
+ $6.28
Total Fee
$216.28
Payment Information
Generated Receipt #:
0003016601
Payment Type:
AMERICAN EXPRESS
Date Paid:
02/15/2022
Filing Fee:
$210.00 (Authorization Code: 232742)
Credit Card Service Fee:* $6.28 (Authorization Code: 282058)
Filing User
Philip M Hines I phines@heldhines.com 718-531-9700
2004 Ralph Avenue, Brooklyn, NY 11234
* Credit Card Service Fee: This fee is in addition to the amount paid to the biller and will appear as a separate charge on your credit
or debit card statement. This service fee is non-refundable.
Kevin Rothermel, Acting Bronx County Clerk
Phone: 718-590-8122 (fax) Website: http://ww2.nycourts.gov/COURTS/12JD/BRONX/countyclerk/index.shtm
NYSCEF Resource Center - nyscef@nycourts.gov
Phone: (646) 386-3033
Fax: (212) 401-9146
Website: www.nycourts.gov/efile
Page 1 of 1
SIGNATURE
of
New
YORK
NYSCEF Confirmation Notice
Bronx County Supreme Court
United
Court
Sister
The NYSCEF website has received an electronic filing on 02/15/2022 02:54 PM. Please keep this notice
as a confirmation of this filing.
Index Number NOT assigned
DAVID BOOKMAN V. CITY OF NEW YORK et al
Assigned Judge: None Recorded
Documents Received on 02/15/2022 02:54 PM
Doc #
Document Type
1
SUMMONS + COMPLAINT
Filing User
Philip M Hines I phines@heldhines.com 718-531-9700
2004 Ralph Avenue, Brooklyn, NY 11234
E-mail Notifications
An email regarding this filing has been sent to the following on 02/15/2022 02:54 PM:
PHILIP M. HINES - phines@heldhines.com
Email Notifications NOT Sent
Role
Party
Attorney
Respondent
CITY OF NEW YORK
No consent on record.
Respondent
R.N.D.C. DEPUTY WARDEN
No consent on record.
Respondent
JOHN DOE
No consent on record.
Respondent
CORRECTION OFFICERS
No consent on record.
JOHN DOE 1-5, fictitious
* Court rules require hard copy service upon non-participating parties and attorneys who have opted-out or declined
consent.
Kevin Rothermel, Acting Bronx County Clerk
Phone: 718-590-8122 (fax) Website: http://ww2.nycourts.gov/COURTS/12JD/BRONX/countyclerk/index.shtm
NYSCEF Resource Center, nyscef@nycourts.gov
Phone: (646) 386-3033 I Fax: (212) 401-9146 I Website: www.nycourts.gov/efile
Page 1 of 2
State of New York
NYSCEF Confirmation Notice
Bronx County Supreme Court
United
Court
System
Index Number NOT assigned
DAVID BOOKMAN V. CITY OF NEW YORK et al
Assigned Judge: None Recorded
Kevin Rothermel, Acting Bronx County Clerk
Phone: 718-590-8122 (fax) Website: :http://ww2.nycourts.gov/COURTS/12JD/BRONX/countyclerk/index.shtm
NYSCEF Resource Center, nyscef@nycourts.gov
Phone: (646) 386-3033 I Fax: (212) 401-9146 I Website: www.nycourts.gov/efile
Page 2 of 2
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF BRONX
X
DAVID BOOKMAN,
Index No.
Plaintiff,
-against-
SUMMONS
CITY OF NEW YORK, R.N.D.C. DEPUTY WARDEN
Basis of Venue: CPLR ยง504
JOHN DOE, and CORRECTION OFFICERS JOHN
DOE 1-5, fictitious names used to identify presently
Plaintiff designates Bronx
unknown deputy warden and correction officers herein,
County as place of trial
Defendants.
X
To the above-named Defendants:
You are hereby summoned to answer the complaint in this action and to serve a copy of
your answer, or, if the complaint is not served with this summons, to serve a notice of appearance,
on the Plaintiff's Attorney(s) within twenty (20) days after the service of this summons, exclusive
of the day of service (or within thirty (30) days after the service is complete if this summons is not
personally delivered to you within the State of New York); and in case of your failure to appear
or
answer, judgment will be taken against you by default for the relief demanded in the complaint.
Dated: Brooklyn, New York
February 15, 2022
Defendants' Addresses:
Yours, etc.,
CITY OF NEW YORK
HELD & HINES, LLP
100 Church Street
New York, New York 10007
serviceecf@law.nyc.gov
/s/ Philip Hines
PHILIP M. HINES, ESQ.
Deputy Warden
Attorneys for Plaintiff
Robert N. Davoren Complex
2004 Ralph Avenue
11-11 - Hazen Street
Brooklyn, New York 11234
East Elmhurst, New York 11370
(718) 531-9700
phines@heldhines.com
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF BRONX
X
DAVID BOOKMAN,
Index No.
Plaintiff,
-against-
VERIFIED
COMPLAINT
CITY OF NEW YORK, R.N.D.C. DEPUTY WARDEN
JOHN DOE, and CORRECTION OFFICERS JOHN DOE 1-
5, fictitious names used to identify presently unknown deputy
warden and correction officers herein,
Defendants.
X
Plaintiff, DAVID BOOKMAN, by his attorneys, HELD & HINES, LLP, complaining of
the defendants, hereinafter states and alleges as follows upon information and belief:
1.
At all times alleged herein, the plaintiff was a resident of the State of New York,
confined to the custody and control of defendants CITY OF NEW YORK, its agents, servants
and/or employees, and imprisoned at the Robert N. Davoren Complex, located at 11-11 Hazen
Street, East Elmhurst, New York ("R.N.D.C."), and/or other jails of the City of New York.
2.
Upon information and belief, and at all times alleged herein, defendant CITY OF
NEW YORK (hereinafter referred to as "defendant City"), was and remains a body corporate and
politic, constituting a municipal corporation, duly organized and existing under and by virtue of
the laws of the City and State of New York.
3.
Upon information and belief, and at all times alleged herein, defendant City
operates, maintains, supervises, and staffs its Department of Correction and local jails pursuant to
law.
4.
Upon information and belief, and at all times alleged herein, defendants R.N.D.C.
DEPUTY WARDEN JOHN DOE and CORRECTION OFFICERS JOHN DOE 1-5 (hereinafter
collectively referred to as the "defendant staff"), were correction officers and supervisors
employed by defendant City, were responsible for the custody, control and care of the plaintiff and
his assailants, and were negligent, deliberately indifferent to and/or participated in the
mistreatment of Plaintiff alleged herein. The identities of defendants R.N.D.C. DEPUTY
WARDEN JOHN DOE and CORRECTION OFFICERS JOHN DOE 1-5 are not presently known,
but they are believed to be correction officers and supervisors endowed and bestowed with various
ranks and appointments upon them by defendant City. The defendant staff are sued in their
capacities as individuals as well as in their official capacity as officers acting under the color of
law.
5.
At all times alleged herein, defendant City was charged with the hiring, training,
retention, direction, supervision, discipline, oversight, appointment and promotion of all correction
officers, supervisors, and staff in its employ, including but not limited to the defendant staff.
6.
At all times alleged herein, defendant City and the defendant staff were entrusted
with the custody and care of those persons detained and confined to Department of Correction
custody, including but not limited to the plaintiff and inmate attackers.
7.
At all times alleged herein, defendant City and the defendant staff assumed a duty
of care to the plaintiff.
8.
At all times alleged herein, defendant City and the defendant staff were entrusted
with a special duty of care to the plaintiff.
9.
Defendant City and the defendant staff, individually and collectively, engaged in
the conduct alleged herein under color of law of the State of New York.
10.
The defendant staff knowingly participated or acquiesced in, contributed to,
encouraged, implicitly authorized, or approved the conduct alleged herein.
11.
The offenses alleged herein resulted, in whole or in part, due to the failure of
defendant City to employ qualified persons for positions of authority, and/or to properly or
conscientiously train and supervise the conduct of such persons during their employment, and/or
to promulgate appropriate operating policies and procedures either formally or by custom to
protect the rights of those persons confined to their custody and control, including but not limited
to the plaintiff.
STATEMENT OF FACTS
12.
Following his arrest on or about June 30, 2020, plaintiff DAVID BOOKMAN was
confined to the custody, control, and care of defendant City and defendant staff at the Robert N.
Davoren Complex and/or other jails owned, operated, maintained, and controlled by defendant
City.
13.
At all times alleged herein, Defendants knew that Plaintiff was at heightened risk
of imminent physical danger due to the criminal charges asserted against him and specific threats
made to him.
14.
Due to the nature of the criminal charges alleged against him, Plaintiff was
in
physical danger on a daily basis.
15.
Prior to and on the date of incident, Defendants had given Plaintiff a high security
classification.
16.
On or about June 7, 2021, in the dayroom of R.N.D.C., 2 Lower South, Plaintiff
was assaulted by a presently unknown prisoner while the defendant staff were present. To wit,
Plaintiff was watching television in the dayroom while the defendant deputy warden and the
security team of officers were present therein. Suddenly and unexpectedly, the unknown prisoner
approached Plaintiff, took the television remote from Plaintiff, and punched Plaintiff. The
unknown attacker then flashed a plexiglass knife at Plaintiff and ran out of the dayroom. Plaintiff
sustained a bruise to his lip as a result of this attack.
17.
Although Plaintiff reported to the defendant staff that an unprovoked assault just
occurred and that the assailant flashed a knife at Plaintiff and there were visible signs of Plaintiff's
lip bleeding, the defendant staff failed to intervene at that time, failed to document the attack, failed
to secure Plaintiff's attacker, failed to remove Plaintiff and/or his attacker from the housing unit,
failed to issue a separation order, failed to take any reasonable and appropriate measures to protect
Plaintiff, and failed to take timely and appropriate measures to mitigate Plaintiff's risk of further
attack and injury. Instead, the defendant staff mocked Plaintiff for being sucker punched and told
him to "do what he had to do."
18.
Rather than acting on the defendant staff's suggestions of retribution, Plaintiff went
to a cell to get a rag for his lip and a book to read. Shortly thereafter, Plaintiff's attacker entered
this cell along with a few other prisoners and began attacking him again. Then, one of the defendant
staff, a presently unknown correction officer, entered the cell and began swinging violently at
Plaintiff and punched Plaintiff on the side of his face, fracturing his jaw.
19.
On or about June 8, 2021, Plaintiff was taken to urgent care, where he underwent
x-rays that confirmed a fractured jaw.
20.
Several days later, Plaintiff had three (3) teeth removed and underwent open
reduction internal fixation to repair his jaw. Plaintiff's jaw was then wired shut and he remained
on a liquid diet until his release from Defendants' custody in November 2021.
21.
Upon information and belief, in each of the attacks suffered by Plaintiff, his
assailants had been screened by defendant City, its agents, servants and/or employees, including
but not limited to the defendant staff and Gang Intelligence Unit, and determined to be appropriate
for housing in general population.
22.
Upon information and belief, defendant City and defendant staff had prior notice,
both actual and constructive, that Plaintiff's assailants possess violent propensities, individually
and collectively.
23.
Upon information and belief, defendant City and defendant staff had prior notice,
both actual and constructive, that these inmates had dangerous, violent, and lethal intentions for
Plaintiff.
24.
Despite having prior notice of the gang membership or affiliation, violent
propensities, and dangerous intentions of Plaintiff's assailants, both individually and collectively,
defendant City and defendant staff caused, created, permitted and/or allowed Plaintiff to be
housed, placed, and remain in a known perilous situation.
25.
Despite the defendant staff being present and witnessing the attacker(s)' prior
violent threats and physical assault on the plaintiff, the defendant staff failed to secure the area,
give a direct order to the inmates, maintain a presence, relocate Plaintiff, or take any action
whatsoever to defuse an escalating situation. Rather, the defendant staff's words and actions
escalated the situation such that one of them then used excessive force upon Plaintiff during the
second unprovoked attack.
26.
As a result of each of the aforesaid incidents, and the defendant(s)' intentional,
negligent and/or deliberately indifferent conduct, Plaintiff was caused to sustain serious and severe
physical, psychological, and emotional injuries, pain and suffering, disability from usual activities,
and scarring.
CONDITIONS PRECEDENT
27.
On or about September 3, 2021, Plaintiff caused a Notice of Claim to be duly served
and filed with the City of New York setting forth the time, place, substance of claim, and
description of injuries sustained by the plaintiff.
28.
More than thirty (30) days have elapsed since said date and the aforesaid defendant
has neglected and refused to make an adjustment thereof.
29.
On or about January 10, 2022, the City of New York conducted its Municipal
Hearing pursuant to Section 50-h of the General Municipal Law.
30.
This action is commenced, including all applicable tolls, within one (1) year and
ninety (90) days after said cause of action arose.
31.
This action falls within one or more of the exceptions set forth in CPLR 1602.
AS AND FOR A FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION
NEGLIGENT HIRING, TRAINING, SUPERVISION AND RETENTION
32.
Plaintiff repeats, reiterates and realleges each and every allegation of paragraphs
"1" through "31", inclusive, of this Complaint, as if same were fully set forth herein at length.
33.
Defendant City was negligent in its hiring, training, retention, supervision,
direction, control, appointment and/or promotion of its employees, agents and/or servants,
including but not limited to the defendant staff.
34.
The failure of defendant City to adequately train its employees, agents and/or
servants, including but not limited to the defendant staff, in the exercise of their employment
functions, and their failure to enforce the United States Constitution, the laws of the State of New
York, and the rules and regulations of the City of New York, is evidence of the reckless lack of
cautious regard for the rights of those persons in their custody, including the plaintiff herein, and
exhibited a lack of that degree of due care which prudent and reasonable individuals would show.
35.
Defendant City was careless and reckless in hiring, appointing, retaining and
promoting their employees, agents and/or servants, including but not limited to the defendant staff,
in that said employees lacked the experience and ability to be employed by the City; in failing to
exercise due care and caution in their hiring, appointment and promotion practices, and in
particular, hiring the defendant-employees who lacked the mental capacity and ability to function
as employees of said defendants; in that the defendant-employees lacked the maturity, sensibility
and intelligence to be employed by said defendants; in that said defendants knew of the lack of
ability, experience and maturity of the defendant-employees when they hired them to be an
employee; in that said defendants, their agents, servants and/or employees, failed to suspend and/or
terminate the defendant-employee(s) when such action was either proper or required; and in being
otherwise careless, negligent and reckless in the instance.
36.
Defendant City knew or should have known in the exercise of reasonable care, the
propensities of the defendant staff to engage in the wrongful conduct heretofore alleged in this
Complaint.
37.
The aforesaid acts and omissions of defendant City, its employees, agents and/or
servants, including but not limited to the defendant staff, resulted in the plaintiff being assaulted
by inmates and a correction officer and his civil rights being violated.
38.
Defendant City knew or should have known that its policies, customs, and practices,
as well as its negligent supervision, training, appointment and promotion of its employees, agents
and/or servants, including but not limited to the defendant staff, created an atmosphere where the
most prominent offenders felt assured that their most brazen acts of misconduct and neglect would
not be swiftly and effectively investigated and prosecuted.
39.
That the harassment, assaults, and abuse of the plaintiff, as set forth above, were
the reasonably foreseeable consequence of the defendants' negligent conduct.
40.
The aforesaid acts of defendant City, its employees, agents and/or servants,
including but not limited to the defendant staff, resulted in the plaintiff being caused to experience
severe physical, psychological, and emotional pain and suffering, and in other respects, was
damaged.
AS AND FOR A SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION
NEGLIGENCE
41.
Plaintiff repeats, reiterates and realleges each and every allegation of paragraphs
"1" through "40," inclusive, of this Complaint, as if same were fully set forth herein at length.
42.
Defendant City, its agents, employees and/or servants, including but not limited to
the defendant staff, owed a duty to care and protect Plaintiff while he was in their custody, control,
and care.
43.
As set forth above, Defendant City, its agents, employees and/or servants, including
but not limited to the defendant staff, knew or by reasonable diligence should have known of the
overt threats of physical violence made by inmates against the plaintiff.
44.
Defendant City, its agents, employees and/or servants, including but not limited to
the defendant staff, knew or by reasonable diligence should have known that the inmates who
assaulted Plaintiff were violent inmates who required additional observation, supervision, and
attention.
45.
Defendant City, its agents, employees and/or servants, including but not limited to
the defendant staff, knew or by reasonable diligence should have known that the inmates who
attacked Plaintiff in each instance intended to physically assault, batter, and cause harm to plaintiff.
46.
That despite the foregoing, Defendant City, its agents, employees and/or servants,
including but not limited to the defendant staff, negligently failed to take timely and sufficient
action and/or take any action in order to prevent said inmates from assaulting, battering, beating,
and stabbing Plaintiff in each instance.
47.
Defendant City, its agents, employees and/or servants, including but not limited to
the defendant staff, failed to timely intervene in each instance once the inmates had begun
assaulting, battering, beating, and stabbing Plaintiff SO as to mitigate the extent of Plaintiff's
injuries. Rather, the defendant officer escalated the situation by punching Plaintiff in the face and
fracturing his jaw.
48.
Defendant City, its agents, employees and/or servants, including but not limited to
the defendant staff, failed to perform sufficient inspections, rounds, searches, and the like SO as to
permit the inmates who assaulted Plaintiff sufficient time to manufacture, transport, and conceal
dangerous weapons.
49.
Said defendants knew or should have known that their careless, negligent, and
reckless supervision, inspection, and control of the inmates who assaulted Plaintiff and the subject
housing areas where the assaults occurred created an unreasonable risk of bodily injury to the
plaintiff and did cause Plaintiff's physical, emotional and psychological injuries, pain and
suffering.
50.
As set forth above, the defendants were negligent in their ownership, operation,
supervision, enforcement and control of the Robert N. Davoren Complex where the assaults
occurred; in failing to reasonably and adequately supervise and control the detainees/inmates in
their custody and control, including but not limited to the plaintiff and his assailants; in failing to
protect the health and welfare of the plaintiff; in failing to provide the plaintiff with reasonably
safe living conditions while he was confined to their custody and control; in negligent supervision
of the plaintiff and his assailants; in failing to quickly and diligently intercede in the subject attacks
on Plaintiff; in setting a trap for the plaintiff; in failing to take cognizance of a dangerous and
escalating situation; in failing to have an adequate policy to curtail inmate-on-inmate violence; in
failing to take reasonable measures and precautions to avoid and/or mitigate the incidence of
inmate-on-inmate violence; in violating the plaintiff's civil, statutory and common law rights; in
infringing upon the freedoms afforded to the plaintiff; in being deliberately indifferent to Plaintiff's
health, safety, and security; in causing and allowing their jails to be and remain violent and
dangerous for those imprisoned therein; in causing, creating and/or allowing unlawful jail
conditions to be and remain; in having a policy, either written or by custom, which accepts and/or
promotes inmate-on-inmate violence; in having a policy, either written or by custom, which
accepts and/or promotes correction officer disinterest, indifference and/or uninvolvement during
incidents of inmate-on-inmate violence; in failing to timely prevent and/or mitigate the subject
incidents despite having notice, time and opportunity to do so; in failing to reasonably and
adequately discipline and/or segregate plaintiff and his assailants following prior violent incidents
and/or other disciplinary violations; in permitting violent prisoners to be left unattended and
unsupervised; in permitting gang member to fraternize and scheme violence; in failing to inspect
and supervise the locations of the subject incidents after notice was given; in failing to give the
plaintiff notice and/or warning; in causing and/or allowing the plaintiff to be injured; in causing
and creating a dangerous condition conducive to causing injury; in causing and creating a
dangerous and hazardous condition to exist; in creating and allowing a nuisance to exist; in failing
to provide for the safety of the plaintiff; in failing to adequately train the correction officers charged
with maintaining security of the subject locations and control of plaintiff and his assailants; in
failing to have trained personnel; that the above stated occurrences would not have occurred but
for the negligence of the defendants; in causing, permitting and/or allowing the plaintiff to be
assaulted and battered; and said defendants were otherwise negligent, careless and reckless in the
instance.
51.
Inasmuch as the defendant correction officers were acting for, upon, and in
furtherance of the business of their employer and within the scope of their employment, defendant
City is liable under the doctrine of respondeat superior for the tortious actions of its agents,
employees and/or servants, including but not limited to the defendant correction officers.
AS AND FOR A THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION
VIOLATION AND DEPRIVATION OF CIVIL RIGHTS
52.
Plaintiff repeats, reiterates and realleges each and every allegation of paragraphs
"1" through "51", inclusive, of this Complaint, as if same were fully set forth herein at length.
53.
As set forth above, Defendant City and the defendant staff were deliberately
indifferent to Plaintiff's health, safety, and security, in violation of the Constitution of the United
States of America.
54.
As set forth above, Defendant City and the defendant staff, acting under color of
state law, deprived Plaintiff of the rights, privileges, and immunities guaranteed to citizens of the
United States by the Fourth, Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution
and in violation of 42 U.S.C. ยง 1983.
55.
Defendant City and the defendant staff facilitated these assaults and other abuses
of Plaintiff by failing to implement policies and practices consistent with the law, court precedent,
court orders, and consent decrees; by failing to properly and successfully intake and screen inmates
prior to issuing housing assignments; by failing to properly and successfully intake and screen risk
factors prior to issuing housing assignments; by permitting its officials and staff to operate in the
manner alleged herein; by failing to monitor (through cameras or otherwise) known at-risk areas;
by failing to implement meaningful consequences for officers and staff who fail to report suspected
and/or witnessed physical and sexual abuses; by failing to encourage victims of physical and
sexual abuse to report said abuse; by failing to take reasonable measures to ensure the safety and
security of inmates who are at heightened safety risk (such as detainees charged with certain
criminal offenses); by failing to implement adequate and effective training, supervision and
monitoring policies; by failing to implement security policies that do not force at-risk prisoners to
choose between being safe and being in protective custody; and in being otherwise deliberately
indifferent to the heightened safety risks Plaintiff faced in Defendants' jails.
56.
Defendant City and the defendant staff know that inmates enter other inmates cells
with the intent to assault them out of view of officers; defendant City and the defendant staff know
that inmates force other inmates to one of the many unmonitored areas in the jail (e.g., stairwells,
vestibules, showers, etc.) with the intent to assault them out of view of officers. These defendants
know the unmonitored areas where these abuses take place, yet they consciously disregard the
known risk they pose to inmates' safety and failed to protect Plaintiff from these vicious abuses
and were deliberately indifferent to Plaintiff's vulnerable situation.
57.
Defendant City and the defendant staff remained indifferent to the plaintiff's abuse
in their jail even after Plaintiff reported that he had been assaulted. Defendant City and the
defendant staff failed to take prompt action to investigate, separate and punish the inmates who
committed these crimes against Plaintiff. Defendants also failed to take any action to mitigate or
remediate the risks of victimization to Plaintiff.
58.
Defendant City and the defendant staff's unreasonable practices described above
were in disregard for Plaintiff's obvious and substantial risk of harm, amounting to deliberate
indifference to his safety.
59.
Despite Defendant City and the defendant staff's notice that Plaintiff was highly
vulnerable to violent attacks, he was placed in situations of imminent peril and was attacked by
inmates, in violation of his right to be free from cruel and unusual punishment.
60.
As set forth above, Defendant City and the defendant staff facilitated the attacks
and abuse suffered by Plaintiff.
61.
By their policies, practices, acts, and omissions, Defendant City and the defendant
staff caused Plaintiff to be subjected to harassment, threats, and physical assault.
62.
Defendant City and the defendant staff's failure to institute adequate safeguards in
their hiring, screening, training, and supervision practices demonstrates their deliberate
indifference to the safety and well-being of inmates in their custody, care, and control.
63.
Defendant City and the defendant staff's failure to institute adequate safeguards in
their intake, screening, classification, housing, and supervision practices demonstrates their
deliberate indifference to the safety and well-being of inmates in their custody, care, and control.
64.
Defendant City and the defendant staff were grossly negligent in failing to
supervise to ensure, among other things, that (a) the officers hired were properly vetted, (b) officers
were properly supervised and their performance was regularly reviewed, and (c) the areas where
the abuses alleged herein occurred were safe and secure.
65.
Defendant City and the defendant staff were grossly negligent in failing to adopt
policies, practices and procedures and/or enforce those already in place that (a) require the City of
New York, Department of Correction, and each of its facilities to follow strict professional and
character standards when assessing and vetting applicants for employment in DOC facilities, (b)
require DOC and each facility to conduct follow-up background investigations into disclosures
that call an applicant's judgment and character into question, (c) require DOC and facilities to
screen applicants specifically for vulnerability to corruption and contraband smuggling; (d) require
DOC and facilities to compel candidates to disclose and describe the circumstances of all prior
convictions and arrests and prior employment disciplinary history, (e) set training and re-training
requirements for all staff working in DOC facilities, (f) set performance requirements for all staff
working in DOC facilities, and (g) require DOC and each facility to perform periodic post-
employment checks to ensure employees are not fraternizing with inmates.
66.
Defendant City was grossly negligent in that they (a) hired the officers who were
not properly vetted, (b) failed to supervise and review officers' performance, (c) failed to conduct
adequate background checks on officers resulting in employment of these individuals with obvious
propensities to commit criminal behavior, (d) failed to follow strict professional and character
standards when assessing the defendant officers, (e) failed to conduct follow-up background
investigations into disclosures that call officers' judgment and character into question, (f) had an
otherwise substantially flawed and deficient application, interview, and screening process of
candidates, and (g) failed to adopt policies, practices and procedures and/or enforce those already
in place regarding the foregoing.
67.
Due to prior allegations and investigations, Defendant City and the defendant staff
knew that inmates who assault other inmates routinely leave their assigned cells, congregate in
areas where they are not permitted, congregate in areas that are known to be outside the view of
monitored security cameras, and engage in open and public behavior that is of a harassing,
menacing, and threatening nature. These behaviors are known and visible to officers, supervisory
personnel, and other inmates alike. Defendant City and the defendant staff failed to take
meaningful action despite knowledge of these activities and have not enforced policies intended
to identify, address, and prohibit these activities.
68.
Defendant City and the defendant staff failed to ensure that security cameras are
installed in these high-risk areas and, where cameras are installed, have failed to ensure that they
are functional and continuously monitored.
69.
Defendant City and the defendant staff failed to employ obvious measures to reduce
the risk of physical and sexual abuse of inmates, such as heightened monitoring of behavior
indicative of ongoing abuse, appropriately placed and functional surveillance cameras installed
and maintained without inmate knowledge, exit interviews of inmates upon transfer or release,
random interviews of inmates, and more frequent, unannounced rounds by officers and supervisory
officials.
70.
Defendant City and the defendant staff's system for the reporting and investigation
of threats, harassment, and physical abuse is grossly inadequate. It relies almost entirely on inmates
reporting their own abuse and then fails to take appropriate action to protect those who do come
forward or to punish their abusers.
71.
Defendant City and the defendant staff have failed to train correction officers,
mental health staff, and clinic staff to notice the signs of physical abuse, to take reports of physical
abuse seriously, and to give adequate weight to the credibility of inmates and witnesses.
72.
Defendant City and the defendant staff's do not consistently investigate reports of
physical abuse in a prompt or thorough manner, if at all. Once an inmate reports that he or she has
been physically abused, weeks can pass before an investigation begins. Regardless of what an
investigation reveals, the subjects are rarely disciplined, and victims are rarely informed of the
outcome.
73.
Defendant City and the defendant staff treat inmates as adversaries rather than allies
in the prevention of physical abuse in jails. In the case of Plaintiff, for example, his claims were
treated dismissively despite his allegations being supported by the evidence.
74.
The failures and refusals by defendant City and the defendant staff to hold their
subordinate officers accountable is a proximate cause of the injuries and abuses sustained by the
plaintiff.
75.
Through promotions and other financial and status incentives, defendant City and
the defendant staff have the power to reward officers who perform their jobs adequately and to
punish - or at the very least fail to reward - those who do not. Defendant City and the defendant
staff's actions and omissions have created and maintained the perception that supervisors, officers
and other staff who turns a blind eye towards evidence of inmate-on-inmate harassment,
intimidation, assaults, and abuse, and fail to report or investigate these incidents, will suffer no
damage to his or her career or financial penalty.
76.
The pattern of unchecked physical abuse against Plaintiff and other inmates
similarly situated, and the persistent failure or refusal of defendant City and the defendant staff to
adequately supervise these persons and to take action to curb the misconduct, demonstrates a
policy of deliberate indifference which tacitly authorized the misconduct claimed by the plaintiff.
77.
The foregoing customs, policies, usages, practices, procedures and rules of
defendant City and the defendant staff are maintained with deliberate indifference to the safety,
well-being and constitutional rights of the plaintiff and were the direct and proximate cause of the
constitutional violations suffered by the plaintiff as alleged herein.
78.
The foregoing customs, policies, usages, practices, procedures and rules of
defendant City and the defendant staff were the moving force behind the constitutional violations
suffered by the plaintiff as alleged herein.
79.
As set forth above, defendant City and the defendant staff failed to protect Plaintiff
from known and foreseeable harm.
80.
As set forth above, defendant City and the defendant staff failed to intervene,
mitigate and/or stop the abuses alleged herein.
81.
As set forth above, defendant City and the defendant staff knew of and consciously
disregarded an excessive risk to Plaintiff's health and safety.
82.
As set forth above, the defendant staff were personally involved in the acts and
omissions alleged herein.
83.
As a result of the foregoing, Plaintiff suffered and continues to suffer severe and
permanent physical, psychological, and emotional injuries, pain and suffering.
AS AND FOR A FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION
CRUEL AND UNUSUAL PUNISHMENT
84.
Plaintiff repeats, reiterates and realleges each and every allegation of paragraphs
"1" through "83", inclusive, of this Complaint, as if same were fully set forth herein at length.
85.
As set forth above, defendant City and the defendant staff, acting under the color
of law, violated the plaintiff's constitutional, common law, and statutory rights.
86.
Plaintiff's injuries and damages were preventable, and he is therefore entitled to
recover for the wanton and unnecessary infliction of pain he endured and suffers still, and the
injuries he sustained.
87.
Defendant City and the defendant staff's violations of Plaintiff's constitutional,
common law, and statutory rights were cruel, malicious, and evinced a total and reckless disregard
for plaintiff's health, life and rights, thereby entitling Plaintiff to recover punitive damages from
the defendant correction officers in order to deter such conduct in the future.
AS AND FOR A FIFTH CAUSE OF ACTION
BATTERY
88.
Plaintiff repeats, reiterates and realleges each and every allegation of paragraphs
"1" through "87", inclusive, of this Complaint, as if same were fully set forth herein at length.
89.
As alleged herein, the defendant officer's unlawful acts against Plaintiff constituted
harmful and offensive contact to Plaintiff's person, which were done intentionally by the defendant
officer and without Plaintiff's consent or legal justification.
90.
As a direct and proximate result of the defendant officer's aforementioned battery
of Plaintiff, Plaintiff sustained in the past, and will continue to sustain in the future, physical injury,
pain and suffering, serious and severe psychological and emotional distress, mental anguish,
embarrassment, humiliation, and economic damages.
91.
By reason of the foregoing, Plaintiff is entitled to an award of compensatory
damages in an amount exceeding the jurisdictional limits of all lower courts that would
otherwise have jurisdiction.
92.
By reason of the foregoing, Plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive damages
in an amount the jury would find fair, just, and appropriate to deter said defendant officer and
others from future similar conduct, while considering the depraved, malicious, fraudulent, and
oppressive intent to injure Plaintiff, in conscious disregard for his rights and safety.
AS AND FOR A SIXTH CAUSE OF ACTION
ASSAULT
93.
Plaintiff repeats, reiterates and realleges each and every allegation of paragraphs
"1" through "92", inclusive, of this Complaint, as if same were fully set forth herein at length.
94.
As alleged herein, the defendant officer's unlawful acts against Plaintiff created a
reasonable apprehension in Plaintiff of immediate harmful or offensive contacts to Plaintiff's
person, all of which were done intentionally by the defendant officer and without Plaintiff's consent
or legal justification.
95.
As a direct and proximate result of the aforementioned assault, Plaintiff has
sustained in the past, and will continue to sustain in the future, physical injury, pain and suffering,
serious and severe psychological and emotional distress, mental anguish, embarrassment,
humiliation, and economic damages.
96.
By reason of the foregoing, Plaintiff is entitled to an award of compensatory
damages in an amount exceeding the jurisdictional limits of all lower courts that would
otherwise have jurisdiction.
97.
By reason of the foregoing, Plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive damages
in an amount the jury would find fair, just, and appropriate to deter said defendant officer and
others from future similar conduct, while considering the depraved, malicious, fraudulent, and
oppressive intent to injure Plaintiff, in conscious disregard for his rights and safety.
98.
This action falls within one or more exceptions of CPLR ยง 1602.
WHEREFORE, the plaintiff requests an award of compensatory damages against all
defendants in an amount that exceeds the jurisdictional limits of all lower courts, in addition to
punitive damages against the individual defendants, together with reasonable attorney's fees, costs
and disbursements, and such other and further relief as this Court deems just and proper.
Dated: Brooklyn, New York
February 15, 2022
Yours, etc.,
HELD & HINES, LLP
/s/ Philip Hines
PHILIP M. HINES, ESQ.
Attorneys for Plaintiff
2004 Ralph Avenue
Brooklyn, New York 11234
(718) 531-9700
phines@heldhines.com
ATTORNEY VERIFICATION
PHILIP M. HINES, an attorney duly licensed to practice in the courts of the State of New
York, hereby affirms the following under penalties of perjury:
That I am a member of the law firm of HELD & HINES, LLP, attorneys for the plaintiff,
DAVID BOOKMAN, in the within action; I have read the foregoing VERIFIED COMPLAINT
and know the contents therefore; the same is true to my own knowledge, except as to the matters
therein alleged to be on information and belief, and as to those matters, I believe them to be true.
The reason this Verification is made by me and not by the plaintiff is that said plaintiff resides
outside of the county in which the Affirmant's office is located.
The grounds of my belief as to all matters stated upon my own knowledge are as follows:
the records, reports, contracts, and documents contained in the plaintiff's file.
/s/ Philip M. Hines
PHILIP M. HINES, ESQ.
Affirmed to this 15th
day of February, 2022
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF BRONX
X
DAVID BOOKMAN,
Index No.
Plaintiff,
-against-
CITY OF NEW YORK, R.N.D.C. DEPUTY WARDEN
JOHN DOE, and CORRECTION OFFICERS JOHN DOE 1-
5, fictitious names used to identify presently unknown deputy
warden and correction officers herein,
Defendants.
X
SUMMONS AND VERIFIED COMPLAINT
HELD & HINES, L.L.P.
Attorneys for Plaintiff
Office & Post Office Address
2004 Ralph Avenue
Brooklyn, New York 11234
(718) 531-9700
Signature (Rule 130-1.1-a)
/s/ Philip M. Hines
PHILIP M. HINES, ESQ.